1
Be Converted
Acts 3:19 Repent ye therefore , and be converted,
that your sins may be blotted out, when the times a
of refreshing shall come from the presence of the
Lord ods to
bem
To be converted is to be changed so as to become to
and be a christian. Many people have read the Bible
through. Many people are prejudiced. Let us find a
man who knows nothing about God or the Bible. We
may have to create one in our own mind, or we may
have to go to a foreign land. of to food ,
We first give him the thirty-nine books of the Øld
Testament. We tell him he is not a Jew. Jews teach
their own and they are prejudice. Many of us are H
prejudice. We try not to be but we are.ow edt mort
We tell him he is a Gentile. He is to read the Bible
and report back.
In a few weeks he reports back and is highly excited
over the reading of the wonderful book. He has lerned
that there is a God.
T bn.s
Genesis 1 :1 In the beginning God created the Heaven
and the earth.
sved fieda
Genesis 1:26 And God said, let us make man in our
image, after our likeness: and let them have dominion
over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the
air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth,
and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon
the earth.
21
betrovno0 98
Genesis 1:27 So God created man in his own image,
in the image of God created he him; male and female
created he them . tuo
Genesis 2:7 and the Lord God formed man of the dust
of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the T
breath of life; and man became a living soulad bris
s bnit au jou . beolbut eng sus 9.
And he was especially interested in the flood. nem
Genesis 7:21, b And all flesh died that moved upon It
the earth, both of fowl,and of cattle,and of beast,
and of every creeping thing that creepeth upon the
earth, and every mann-ytridt ods mid ovis ferit
oW
loset awel .wel s fon af od mid Ilet ow
He also wanted to know about Abraham's seed through
whom the world was to be blessed.
SW
. eofbut, esq
Idia edt been of af eH . elitmen s ei od mid Ilet eW
Genesis 12:1-3
61 Now the Lord had said unto Abram, Get thee out I
of thy contry, and from thy kindred, and from thyro
father's house, unto a land that I will show thee!
2 And I will make of thee a great nation, and I
will bless thee, and make thy name great; and thou
shalt be a blessing:
3 And I will bless them that bless thee, and curse
him that curseth thee: and in thee shall all familes
of the earth be blessed.
