1
BEATITUDES IN THE BOOK OF REVELATION
Revelation 1: 3
3 Blessed is he that readeth, and they that hear
the words of this prophecy, and keep those things
which are written therein: for the time is at hand.
This is a reference to the person whose task it
was to explain the visions, designated as he that
readeth; and to those assembled to receive it, as
they that hear.
There were specially endowed teacher
spiritually gifted men, in all of the churches
(I Cor /12), who could read and decode the revelation
that was signified. The language of verse 3 indicates
the need of the explanatory reading.
The words of this book are the results of a vision.
If the things written therein pertained to the
remote future tather than to the immediate futur,
there was no application for such a warning.
Revelation 14:13
13 And I heard a voice from heaven saying unto
me, Write, Blessed are the dead which die in the
Lord from henceforth: Yea, Saith the Spirit, that
they may rest from their labors, and their works
do follow them.
See on back
This shows the blessedness of all the faithful
servants of God, they are blessed in their rest.
Revelation 16:15
15 Behold, I come as a thief. Blessed is he that
watcheth, and keepeth his garments, lest he walk
naked, and they see his shame.
In this series of great promises are found a 3.
declaration of assurances to persecuted christians.
Behold I come as a thief. A blessing is pronounced
on all those that watch, for God would come in
these events as a thief. This does not indicate
an element of surprise, but rather of preparedness.
Walling 5-6-79
am
Bethlehem 8-6-87 P M
2
A thief does not serve notice that he is coming.
We have been notified that Jesus is coming.
(Thessalonians 5:1-4)
Revelation 19:9
9 And he saith unto me, Write, Blessed are they
which are calledunto the marriage supper of the
Lamb. And he saith unto me, these are the true
sayings of God.
The marriage union of Christ and the church is not
a single act or thing. Every union of a believer
with Christ in baptism is marriage to Christ, and
is representative of the whole relation.
This marriage occurs every time one is baptized
into Christ, and is therefore always in process
and is continuous.
The emphasis on the marriage to Christ in this
context was due to the persecutions of those who
taught the gospel. Persecutions were now overcome.
This symbol would again be renewed and conversions
to Christ would prevail.
As the marriage itself is continuous, so must be
the marriage supper, and it symbolized the continuous
fellowship of all who are united to Christ; and
it is as continuous as the baptism of believers
and of the church itself. This part of the song
of victory was based on the renewal of the
interrupted fellowship of Christians by the
afflictions and the tribulations of persecution.
That the Lambs wife should be arrayed in fine linen,
clean and white was explained to be the
righteousness of the saints, the purity of the New
Jerusalem church in contrast with the iniquities
of the harlot Jerusalem, which had gone up in the
smoke of destruction forever. This attire of clean
and white vestures was a beautiful symbol of the
character of all who are added in union with Christ.
They were the ones called unto the marriage supper
of the Lamb, the equal in number of all who were
in the married relation with Christ.
3
This metaphor (A figure of speech in which an idea
is used in place of another to suggest a likeness
between them) (Example: The ship plows the sea)
comparable to the illustration of the wedding
garment in the parable of:
Matthew 22:11-13
11
And when the king came in to see the guests,
he saw there a man which had not on a wedding
garment:
12 And he saith unto him, Friend, how camest thou
in hither not having a wedding garment? And he was
speechless.
13 Then said the king to the servants, Bind him
hand and foot, and take him away, and cast him into
outter darkness; there shall be weeping and gnashing
of teeth.
This is one of the great doctrinal pronouncements
of the whole NT.
It declares "blessed those who meet death in
spiritual union with Jesus Christ." All this
applies to all who die in the Lord. There is n
not another verse in the whole NT that any more
concentrates into so brief a statement the entire
theology of redemption than is effected here ..
Key words
In the Lord
in him
in whom
To be in Christ is to be in spiritual union
with Christ.
This union is completed by the believer's
being baptized into Christ
