1
THE BEATITUDES
Matt. 5:10
Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteous-
ness sake:
for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.
This beatitude reverts to the first. The first
beatitude states the condition of becoming a citizen
of the kingdom, and this one describes the character
of one who has become a citizen, and being in it is
exposed to all of the opposition, persecution and
scorn for the cause of righteousness.
The first beatitude found in
Matt. 5:3
Blessed are the poor in spirit for theirs is the
kingdomof heaven.
This refers to the humble-hearted who depend upon God
for direction, and accepting the conditions of the
gospel will be guided into the kingdom.
These words
were fulfilled on the day of Pentecost for Jesus
spoke these words prior to the events recorded in
the second chapter of Acts. These disciples did not
enter the kingdom until the day of Pentecost.
It has its place also in the sequence of the
beatitudes, for the disciples were not persecuted
before Pentecost. It is therefore a prophesy of
the church after its establishment.
The apostle in
Hebrews 10:32-33
But call to remembrance the former days, in which,
after ye were illuminated, ye endured a great flight
of afflictions;
33 Partly, whilst ye were made a gazingstock both by
reproaches and afflictions; and partly, whilst ye
became companions of them that were so used.
Bethlehem
11-6-88
A M
Walling
6-18-78
A M
Bethlehem 7-19-87 P M
2
32 This verse refers to the fidelity and endurance of
the Hebrew Christians who passed through the
tribulations that arose. Whatever time or whatever
persecution was referred to, was "a great conflict
of suffering."
33 The appeal in these words is to the truly heroic
and faithful endurance of those Christians who, at
the first, had stood against every persecution and
insult, had endured every hardship, and had continued
in spite of everything done to them, never turning
back.
The particular things stressed are they had not merely
endured persecution themselves but willingly sharing
the approaches and befriending their brethren.
This beatitude sees the disciple of Christ at his
highest, triumphing by the sheer spiritual power of
the new kingdom over forces of opposition.
He is not
necessarily the martyr in the arena under the gaze
of the spectators, but the disciple of Christ any-
where who overcomes the buffeting storms of hostility,
who finds himself the subject of malignity, due to
lis loyalty to Christ and the principles of his
kingdom.
Here is the test of truly possessing the
kingdom. - the one who can bear it, and maintain his
integrity and fidelity as the disciple of Christ,
surely has his inheritance in the kingdom.
And he
is related in spirit to
Matt. 5:12
Rejoice, and be exceeding glad; for great is your
reward in heaven: for so persecuted they the prophets
which were before you.
Bage 3
Page
This comparison joins the old and the new dispensa-
tions.
This is the climax of gospel previews and
Pentecost corners. The beatitudes taken as a whole
are but the introduction to the sermon on the mount,
they are a synopsis of the gospel of the kingdom, an
epitome of the doctrine of Christ, and as such they
find expansion in the precepts that follow in the
order of the sermon and of this discussion of them.
3
Chapter 8:1
And Saul was consenting unto his death. And at that
time there was a great persecution against the church
which was at Jerusalem; and they were all scattered
abroad throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria,
except the apostles.
Saul was pleased with his being put to death and
approved it. He later repented of consenting to
and approving this action.
Immediately following the death of Stephen the
persecution arose.
The tumult did not subside when
Stephen was killed.
Their anger continued to be
against all Christians.
They had become so embit-
tered by the zeal and success of the apostles and
by their frequent charges of murder in the putting
of the son of God to death, that they resolved at
once to put a period to their progress and success.
This was the first persecution against Christians;
the first in a series that terminated only when the
religion which they wished to destroy was fully
established.
The collection of Christians which were now organized
into a church.
The church at Jerusalem was the
first that was collected.
They were all scattered abroad! That is, the great
masses of Christians, except the apostles.
Why did
the apostles not flee also. They chose to remain
and brave the fury of the persecutors. For them to
have fled then would have exposed them, as leaders
and founders of the new religion, to the charge of
timidity and weakness.
They therefore resolved to
remain in the midst of their persecutors; and a
--...
merciful providence watched over them, and defended
them from harm.
It was the design of the Lord Jesus that the gospel
should be preached everywhere. To accomplish this
he suffered a persecution to rage; and they were
scattered abroad, and bore his gospel to other
cities and lands. Good thus came out of evil; and
the first persecution resulted, as all others have
done, in advancing the cause which was intended to
-
be destroyed.
4
-
Acts 5:41
And they departed from the 'presence of the council,
rejoicing that they were counted worthy to suffer
hame for his name
LOVE
FEAR
HOPE OF REWARD
