1
THE BEATITUDES
Matt. 5:8
Blessed are the pure in heart: for they shall see God.
Beatitude means the highest state of blessedness.
Those inside the protection of the Church are in the
realm of the highest spiritual blessings offered.
One of the things taught in the Church of Christ is
"Heart Felt religeon. "
Our lession for today deals with the pure heart. Those
who usually teach heart felt religeon, teach in terms
of the heart making decisions. this is not the case
today.
We cannot depend on our heart to make our
decisions for us. Yhis is sometimes expressed as
letting the spirit guide us or being guided by the
spirit. The spirit that should guide us is the Bible
which was written by the guidance of the holy spirit ..
The pure heart of this beatitude does not have any
reference to freedom from impurity, lust or vice ..
The word pure is not used in the moral sense .. It
means an enlightened heart, as in
Ephesians 1:18
The eyes of your understanding being enlightened;
that ye may know what is the hope of his calling,
and what the riches of the glory of his inheritance
in the saints,
The moving of the spirit gives light. This would
follow if they were given the, "Spirit of wisdom.
One of the spiritual gifts.
That ye may know.
Have a fuller understanding or
comprehension.
The hope of his calling ..
The hope of eternal life to
which God had called them.
Many think God calls by
speaking in a wee voice in a special way and telling
special things to do. Not so.
The riches . The heavenly inheritance given in the saints
rich beyond our conception.
10:26-88
Walling 6-4-78 A M
Bethlehem 6-28-87 P M
2
Jesus Spoke to The Apostle Paul as he traveled the
road to Damascas about his ministry which is given in
Acts 26:18
To open their eyes,
and, to turn them from darkness to light,
and, from the power of Satan unto God,
that they may receive forgiveness of sins,
and inheritance among them which are sanctified by
faith that is in me.
Matt. 6-22-23
The light of the body is the eye: if therefore thine
eye be single, thy whole body shall be full of light.
23 But if thine eye be evil, thy whole body shall
be full of darkness. If therefore the light that is
in thee be darkness, how great is that darkness !!
-
The pure heart means the same as the eye single to
the truth.
The single eye is the eye that sees straight; pure y
vision is straight vision ..
The pure heart is a heart with single vision, a heart
that sees straight.
It is an enlightened, understanding heart, a knowing
heart -- aheart that knows, understands and comprehends
the truth.
We know that the eye is the organ of light; and if the
eye is single it has pure vision and the body is in
darkness.
Applying this physical sense to a spiritual
condition Jesus said, "How great is that darkness! "
Spiritual darkness in the soul is infinitely greater
in the comparison with physical darkness in the body.
3
It is only through pure vision of the eyes of the heart
that the soul can receive the spiritual light, and
therefore see God.
The expression "See God" means to enter into the
relationship with God in the kingdom.
Jesus said to Nicodemus
John 3:3
Jesus answered and said unto him, Verily, Verily, I
say unto thee, Except a man be born again, he cannot
see the Kingdom of God.
To see the kingdom meant to enter the kingdom.
To see God means to enter the same state.
This beatitude refers to the heart that is single to
the truth, unmixed with alien elements; an unclouded
vision of the truth grants as a special favor obedience
and brings one into the kingdom of Christ.
We cannot seperate this beatitude from the gospel
of the kingdom, the Church, pointing to its establis-
hment on the day of Pentecost.
