1
THE BEATITUDES
Natt. 5:5
Blessed are the meek:
for they shall inherit the
Beatitude means the highest state of blessedness.
earth .
The nine beautitudes describe the realm of spiritual
blessedness which produces the highest happiness of
the soul ..
Who are the meek ?
What is meekness ?
Meekness is often mistaken for passivity, timid retics
reticence and a sort of an inforiority complex.
But the basic element of meekness, derived from its
root meaning, is equilibrium - the full and complete
possession of all the faculties of ones being, an inner
mastery.
It has been illustrated in some lexical definitiona
as the captain at the helm of his ship in the midst
of the storm, who, in full control of the vessel,
guides the ship steadily through the storm.
Let us consider the character of the man Moses !
Numbers 12:3
[Now the man Moses was very meek, above all the men
which were upon the face of the earth. )
Among all men he was one of the most courageous.
Moses was one of the greatest fighters in Israel.
Consider Moses when he was grown and saw the Egyptian
smiting one of his brethen.
Exodus 2:12
And he looked this way and that way, and when he saw
that there was no man, he slew the Egyptian, and hid
him in the sand.
Consider Moses when he met thendaughters of the priest
at the well and stood up to the shepherds who would
have driven the daughters away.
Bethlehem 6-7-87 PM (0-19-88
The hearers of Jesus were all under the Roman yoke,
but his disciples were soon to become citizens in a
new kingdom.
They would come in contact with many opposing elements
Walling
5-14-78
A M
2
The oppositions of paganism
The oppressions of the Roman Empire
The persecutions of the Jews - their own
But in the meekness of their souls, they would over=
come all of these hostilities, rather than be sub-
dued by them, and thus fill the earth with the
teaching of Christ.
Let us consider the prophecy of Isaiah
11:9
They shall not hurt nor destroy in all my holy
mountain:
for the earth shall be full of the know
ledge of the Lord, as the waters cover the sea.
Again Habakkuk
Chapter 2:14
For the earth shall be filled with the knowledge of
the glory of the Lord, as the waters cover the sea.
Both of these prophecies were of the new dispensation.
Read Isaiah 11:1-8
4
3
Suppose a man should say to his son, "if you want to
own a lot of land, you must be a meek person."
The passage does not mean by the promise to inherit
the earth you will own land.
The literal application of inheriting the earth
belittles the Sermon, beggars its nobility and
nullifies its nature; and it contradicts the
character of the hope planted in the hearts of
disciples then and of Christians today.
It is incom-
patible with the gospel which the beatitudes foretell
The promise of the third beatitude to inherit the
earth has no reference to material possession of the
earth nor to the rulership of the world. It means
that the disciples of Christ would possess a lordly
balance of soul and supreme will power that would
give them spiritual victory over the temptation of
sin and evil influences of Satan.
This is a
description of the meek.
They inherit the earth because this type person with
this characteristic will enable them to fill the
whole world with the principles of the kingdom
being then announced. The kingdom referred to the
church.
The promise of inheriting the earth in the beatitude
was the same thing as Isaiah and Habakkuk prophesied ..
That is to fill the world with the knowledge of God.
Paul said in
7
Ist Corinthians 6:2
Do ye not know that the saints shall judge the world?
and if the world shall be judged by you, are ye
unworthy to judge the smallest matter?
It was a dishonor to the Christian character to
carry little matters about the things of life before
heathen judges.
It is unaccountable that they could
not determine little controversies among themselves.
5
It is in this same sense that "the meek shall
inherit the earth".
The disciples of Christ as
subjects of the spiritual kingdom, would, through
the supremacy of will that gives victory over Satan,
spread the kingdom over the earth "as the waters
cover the sea"
This prophesy was fulfilled beginning at Pentecost
and from there unto the uttermost part of the earth.
