1
THE BEATITUDES
Matt. 5:7
B lessed are the merciful: for they shall obtain
mercy.
Beatitude means the highest state of blessedness. The
beatitudes describe the realm of the kingdom of
heaven as the highest state of spiritual blessing.
The fifth beatitude is but the extension of the fourth
it has to do with obtaining the mercy of forgiveness
of sins which the fourth beatitude calls righteousness
To be in this state of spiritual blessedness is to be
in the Church. All who are in the Church have obtained
MERCY. But gorgiveness is not only a thing received --
it is extended into a relation.
Matt .. 6:15
Matt. 18:23-35
But if ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither
will your Father forgive your trespasses.
This is a reiteration of the divine prerequisite for
forgiveness, namely a forgiving heartt.
Christ forgave those who crucified himsaying, Father
forgive them for they know what they do. This does
not mean that the murderers of our Lord were
immediately pardoned in Heaven but this forgiveness
was extended on a human level ..
Peter said on the day of Pentecost, repent and be
baptised ---
Peter also said , you have slain and crusified the
Savior --
He was speaking to those who had taken part in the
crucifixion.
Some of them were forgiven when they obeyed the gospel
onthe day of pentecost.
That forgiveness was from above.
Walling 5-28-78 A am
Bethlehem 6-21-87
wed 10
2
The same two levels, human and divine, are observable
in the case of Saul of Tarsus-
Stephen forgave him
as
the deed was done
Acts 7:57-60
57
Then they cried out with a loud voice, and stopped
their ears, and ran upon him with one accord,
58.
and cast him out of the city, and stoned him: and
the witnesses laid down their clothes at a young man's
feet, whose name was Saul. .
59 And they stoned Stephen, calling upon God, and
saying, Lord Jesus, receive my spirit.
60
And he kneeled down, and cried with a loud voice,
Lord, lay not this sin to their charge. And when he
had said this, he fell asleep.
But Saul was forgiven in Heaven when he had obeyed,
"From the heart that form of doctrine".
It is the Christians duty to forgive all men without
regard to their repentance.
1 John 1:7
But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light,
we have fellowship one with another, and the blood of
Jesus Christ his Son cleanseth us from all sin.
The gospel of Christ is a system of mercy, and as
recipients of it we shall not withhold from or deny
to others that which we claim for ourselves. This
is a missionary beatitude, in that we are merciful
when we show to others the divine mercy by which we
have been saved.
This beautitude balances with the Gospel.
Titus 3:5
Not by works of righteousness which we have done, but
according to his mercy he saved us, by the washing of
regeneration, and renewing of the Holy Ghost;
He saved us
Not by works of righteousness which we have done, our
own works of merit.
3
But by the washing of regeneration ------- baptism.
Rom 6:1-8
Baptism is not a work of human righteousness or merit,
but has something to do with what God does when he
saves a sinner by his mercy.
Transposing
He saved us not by works but by baptism according to
his mercy.
Ephesians 2:8-9
8 For by grace are ye saved through faith; and that
not of yourselves: it is the gift of God:
9
Not of works, lest any man should boast.
Every person addressed in this passage had been a
baptized, and salvation is here represented as a
system of grace, as it is a system of mercy in
Titus 3; and is the gift of God because its recipents
are the objects of grace and mercy and do not obtain
it through any work of human merit.
The fifth beatitude is therefore a preview
of the
gospel plan of salvation.
