1
THE BEATITUDES
Matt. 5:9
Blessed are the peacemakers:
for they shall be called
the children of God.
Beatitude means the highest state of blessedness.
Those inside the protection of the Church are in the
realm of the highest spiritual blessings offered.
The saved are in the Church. Just as those saved from
the flood were in the Ark.
What is this peace?
Who is the peacemaker?
A look at the beatitude in the light of its setting
reveals at once that it does not refer to the role
of an arbiter, nor to arbitration, nor to composing
differences among people. The peacemaker here is not
the compromiser of disagreements and the settlers of
disputes. It is a passage on reconcilation to God and
invoves the doctrine of peace with God, and the
peacemaker is the peace preacher, the disciple who
would show the people of the world how to find peace
with God.
Reconcilation is a bible term that is we see this word
used often in the bible.
Re
means
again
back
: anew
Reconcilation means to go back .. to make friends again
To make friends anew. These are passages for man to
God differences.
It is the peace of
Romans 10:15
And how shall they preach, except they be sent? As it
is written.
How beautiful are the feet of them that
preach the gospel of peace,
and bring glad tidings
of good things!
This is a quote from Isaiah.
It was the Lord himself
who preached these good tidings.
W
10 30 86 A M
alling 6-11-78
Bethlehem 7-12-87 P M
Romans 8
14 For as many as are led by the Spirit of God,
they are the sons of God.
15 For ye have not received the the spirit of b
bondage to fear; but ye have received the Spirit
of adoption, whereby we cry, Abba, Father.
16 The Spirit itself beareth witness of our spirit,
that we are the children of God:
17 And if children, then heirs; heirs of God,
and joint heirs with Christ, if so be that we suffer
with him, that we may be also glorified togather.
18 For I re ckon that the sufferings of this
present time are not worthy to be compared with
the glory which shall be revealed in us.
19 For the earnest expectation of the creature
waited for the manifestation of the sons of God.
20 For the creature was made subject to vanity
not willingly, but by reason of him who hath subject
the same in hope;
21 Because the creature itself alsoo shall be
delivered from the bondage of corruption into the
glorious liberty of the children of God.
2
It is the peace that Christ came to preach, as express-
ed by Paul in
Ephesians 2:14-17
14 For he is our peace, who hath made both one, and
hath broken down the middle wall of partition between
us;
15 Having abolished in his flesh the enmity, even the
law of commandments contained in ordinances; for to
make in himself of twain one new man, so making peace;
16 And that he might reconcile both unto God in one
body by the cross, having slain the enmity thereby:
17 And came and preached peace to you which were afar
off, and to them that were nigh.
It was the Crucified Christ that brought you nigh, for
he only, is our peace.
The creator of peace between
Jew and Gentile. Having ended the Law of Moses.
The difference between Jew and Gentile being destroyed,
both are made in the Church one new race,
A royal
priesthood, A chosen nation, A peculiar people,"
at peace among themselves.
16 That he might reconcile both to God.
When the sinner once fixes his mind on the bleeding
Savior,
The "Goodness of God leads him to repentance.
17
Gentiles were afar off.
The Jews were nigh.
It is the peace that Peter preached to the children of
Israel and to Cornelius, as recorded in
Acts 10: 36
The word which God sent unto the children of Israel,
preaching peace by Jesus Christ: (He is Lord of all: )
Let us examine some of the differences in the sermons
Peter delivered. One to the Jews on pentecost .. One
to the Gentiles at the house of cornelius.
It is the peace that comes through justification by
faith as sted in
Romans 5:1
Therefore being justified by faith, we have peace with
God through our Lord Jesus Christ:
3
Men are counted righteous before God, not through
obedience to the law, (Moses) but through faith in
Christ.
It is the peace of reconcilation by the blood of the
cross as declared in
Colossians 1: 20
And (having made peace through the bloodof his cross)
by him to reconcile all things unto himself; by him,
I say, whether they be things in earth, or things in
heaven.
Christ came to make peace between Jew and Gentile,
man and man, man and God.
Galations 3:25-27
The Peacemaker is therefore the peace preacher. He is
the disciple of Jesus Christ who tells any one how to
be reconciled to God. In so doing he performs the
function of the children of God, or of those designated
"The sons of God. " So once more this beatitude
balances with the gospel, and occupies a place of
sequence in the order of the beatitude as a preview
of the gospel dispensation.
Ga 3:25-29
=
25 But after that faith is come, we are no longer
under a schoolmaster.
26 For ye are all children of God by faith in
Christ Jesus.
27 For as many of you as have been baptized into
Christ have put on Christ.
