1
THE BEATITUDES
Matt. 5:4
Beatitude means the highest state of blessedness. The
nine beatitudes describe the realm of spiritual
blessedness which produces the highest happiness of
the soul.
The coming of the kingdom of heaven was a fulfilment of
prophecy. .
Isaiah 2:2
And it shall come to pass in the last days, that the
mountain of the Lord's house shall be established in
the top of the mountains, and shall be exalted above
the hills; and all nations shall flow into it.
Matthew 16:18
And I say also unto thee, that thou art Peter, and
upon this rock I will build my church; and the gates
of hell shall not prevail against it.
These two passages are prophecies made concerning the
establishment of the church which were fulfilled on
the day of Pentecost, when the church was established.
Matthew 5:4
Blessed are they that mourn: for they shall be com-
forted.
The gospel truth contained in this beatitude lies in
the meaning of mourning and of the comfort in the
passage .
The passage does not mean to console one
To apply it to the material losses sustained
in the adversities of life is too materialistic. To
another.
refer the passage to grief and bereavement over the
loss of loved ones in death is to misapply the passage
To comfort one another would mean to visit in times
of sorrow and to express our concern and to speak
words expressing our feeling. To comfort the wounded
heart would consist of restoring the bereaved to the
position it once occupied.
Walling 5-7-78 AM
Bethlehem 5-24-87 P M
10 19 88
2
The theme of the passage does not admit of these
applications. The mourning and comfort of the passage
undoubtedly has connection with the announcement of
John concerning the mission of Christin reference to
sin.
John 1:29
The next day John seeth Jesus coming unto him, and
saith, Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the
sin of the world.
It has no reference to personal berevement, disappoint
ments and losses.
Each one of us has sufferer the loss of family as well
as the loss of material things. Entranc into heaven
is not based on how much we have lost in this world. .
References made to the mourning of the spirit over the
sinful condiditons of the world and is sympathetic
with his mission to take away sin as announced by
John the Baptist, an attitude of grief and concern in
the depth of feeling for the state of the lost world.
These words were especially applicable to the environ-
ment of the believing Jews in the surroundings of the
Roman and pagan society, and all who were thus mourning
over "the sin of the world" would soon be comforted by
the good, glad news of the gospel about to be announced
to all the world.
It is the comfort of the prophecy concerning the
coming of Christ into the world, in
Isaiah 61:1-2
The Spirit of the Lord God is upon me; because the
Lord hath appointed me to preach good tidings unto the
meek; he hath sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to
proclaim liberty to the captives, and the opening of
the prison to them that are bound;
2 To proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord, and the
day of vengeance of our God; to comfort all that mourn
3
The deliverance of the Jews from their captivity in
Babylon is constantly used to shadow forth the sal-
vation of men by Jesus Christ. The prophet himself
is sometimes intended to represent the great Savior.
The opening of the prison as prophesied by Isaiah was
not merely opening of prisons, but every kind of liber
ty - complete redemption.
To show the application of this prophesy and its
fulfillment in his ministry, Jesus quoted it in
addressing the synagogue in
Luke 4:18
The spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he hath
annointed me to preach the gospel to the poor; he hath
sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to preach
deliverance to the captives, and recovering of sight
to the blind, to set at liberty them that are bruised.
The relation of Isaiah's prophesy and of the Lord's
quotation is plain.
The reference to preaching the
gospel to the poor does not mean to poor people, but
to the poor spirit of the first beatitude, and it is
evident that "to comfort all that mourn" refers to the
good news of the gospel mentioned by both Isaiah and
Jesus, which is also the comfort of the second
beatitude.
Parallel to this beatitude is the invitation of
Matthew 11:28'
Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavyladen,
and I will give you rest.
There is no difference between the mourning of the
beatitude and the heavyladen of the invitation; and
there is no difference between the comfort and the
rest.
Both passages refer to remission of sins by the gospel
of Christ. And that is the meaning of the second
beatitude which anticipated the good news of the
gospel, as the means of comfort for the sin-laden
world by removing the cause of mourning - "the sin of
the world. "
4
Nothing could alleviate that kind of mourning, or
Weaken the potency of sorrowing for sin, than the
comfort of the gospel upon which rests the hope of
all mankind. The second beatitude is related to
preparation to Pentecost.
