1
THE BEATITUDES
Matt: 5:6
Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after
righteousness : for they shall be filled.
Beatitude means the highest state of blessedness. The
nine beatitudes describe the realm of the kingdom of
heaven as the highest state of spiritual blessedness ..
Righteousness is the state of justification due to
forgiveness of sin ..
Paul declared in
Romans 1: 16-17
For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ:
for it
is the power of God unto salvation to every one that
believeth; to the Jew first, and also to the Greek.
17 For therein is the righteousness of God revealed
from faith to faith:
as it is written, the just
shall live by faith.
That which will show us the way of salvation must needs
show us the way of justification.
The gospel makes known a righteousness ..
There is such a righteousness revealed in the gospel.
This evangelicalrighteousness
1. Is called the righteousness of God
It is of Gods appointing
It is so called to cut off all pretentions
to a righteousnnss resulting from the
merits of our own works.
This righteousness does not refer to the character of
God and is not an attribute of God.
We may say we accept Gods plan for righteousness; yet
we have a tendency to think of the good things we do ..
The Apostle Paul said
Romans 10: 3-4
Matt.19-16-
For they being ignorant of Gods righteousness, and
going about to establish their own tighteousness, have
not submitted themselves to the righteousness of God.
Walling 5-21-78 A M
Bethlehem 6-14-87 P M
1017
2
4
For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness
to every one that believeth.
Jesus gave the most convincing evidence that could be
of his being the Messiah.
The cause of their unbelief:
(1) Ignorance of Gods righteousness.
(2) A proud conceit of their own righteousness.
Jesus said in this same sermon on the mount:
Matt. 5 : 20
For I say unto you, That except your righteousness
shall exceed the righteousness of the Scribes and
Pharisees, ye shall in no case enter into the kingdom
of heaven.
This was strange doctrineto those who looked upon the
Scribes and Pharisees as having arrived at the highest
pitch of religion. It was therefore a great surprise
to them, to hear that they must be better than they.
The Scribes and Pharisees were great enemies to Christ
and his doctrine, and were great oppressors; and yet
it must be owned, that there was something commendable
in them. Yet our Lord Jesus here tells his disciples,
that the religeon he came to establish, did not only
exclude the badness, but excel the goodness of the
Scribes and Pharisees. We must do more than they, and
better than they. They minded only the outside, but
we mustmake conscience of inside godliness.
They aimed at the praise and applause of men, but we
nustaim at acceptance with God: but we, when we have
done all,
must deny ourselves, we are unprofitable
servants, and trust only to the righteousness of Christ
This is one of the easy passages to misapply.
For instance the Jews tithed. To exceed their right-
ousness a christian must tithe plus. If that be the
neaning then tithing plus is a condition of entering
the kingdom, for the passage reads except this right-
ousness exceeds that righteousness they could in no
case enter into the kingdom.
3
The system of forgiveness which Jesus Christ brings
to sinners through the gospel is the righteousness
which exceeds the righteousness of the Jews. The Lord's
use of the word exceed refers to character and kind,
not degree, and refers to the gospel system of forgive-
ness or pardon.
The statement of the fourth beatitude means that Jesus
Christ was bringing to mankind a system of righteousnes
, a divine plan for the justification of sinners, which
depended on forgiveness of sin, and which for that
reason the sinner must desire -- "hunger and thirst for
righteousness" -- and in accepting its condition ,,
receive its full measure.
The fourth beatitude therefore refers to the desire
for justification that the gospel of Christ offers to
unpardoned sinners .. In order to receive it one must
possess the inward qualification of desiring it- ".
hungering and thirsting for it. It means the gospel
is persuasive, not coercive, in character. One must
know what the gospel offers, and realize his own o.
condition without it, and desiring what the gospel
will do for him, he will obey its conditions and come
into the full measure of its forgiveness and pardon.
It simply defines who will enter the kingdom ------
The one who so deeply desires justification that he
will meet the conditions necessary to obtain it ..
This blessing is attached to conditionsthat we have
the power to fulfill, submission to which on the know-
ledge of what the gospel reveals and obedience to its
commands. The genuineness of desire will bring it to
us, and us into it, and we "shall be filled"
--
receive the full measure of the promise.
The beatitudes point to the Great Commission and the
Day of Pentecost
