---
THE BEATITUDES
BLESSED are the poor in SPIRIT
Matt. 5:3
Beatitude means the highest state of blessedness. The
nine beatitudes describe the realm of the kingdom of
heaven as a state of spiritual blessedness which
produces
happiness of the soul.
Matt. 5:3
Blessed are the poor in spirit:
for theirs is the
kingdom of heaven.
The word poor is usually descriptive of what a man has.
Or it may be descriptive of what a man has not.
The Beggar was a poor man who was taken to Abraham's
bosom.
Who is the poorest man you know?
Wh
is it more &
an to receive?
The Beggar received only crumbs!
How much did the rich man have left?
Job 30:25
Did not I weep for him that was in trouble? Was not my
soul grieved for the poor?
His conscience testified that he had always sympathised
with persons in misery and done what he could to help
them.
Prov .. 14:20
The poor is hated even of his own neighbor: but the
rich hath many frirnds.
THE EXPRESSION "POOR IN SPIRIT" REFERS TO WHAT A MAN IS
It carries the idea of dependence on something other
than ones self.
Jer. 10:23
0 Lord, I know that the way of man is not in himself
it is not in man that walketh to direct his steps.
Walling april 30, 1978 A M
Bethlehem 5-24-87 PM
10.19-18
2
The one who is poor in spirit depends upon God for
direction, and that will lead him into the kingdom
Isaiah 57:15
For thus saith the high and loftyOne that inhabiteth:
eternity, whose name is holy; I dwell in the high and
holy place, with him also that is of a contrite and
humble spirit, to revive the humble, and to revive
the heart of the contrite ones ..
The kingdom of heaven which had been announced was a
sphere of divine grace which only the obedient spirit
could enter, and the phrase, "for theirs is the kingdom
of heaven"
are words which pointed to Pentecost when
the kingdom that was drawing nigh was established.
Isaiah 35:8-10
And an highway shall be there, and a way, and it shall
be called the way of holiness; the unclean shall not
pass over it; but it shall be for those: the wayfaring
wen, though fools, shall not err therein ..
No lion shall be there, nor any ravenous beast shal
go up thereon, it shall not be found there; but the
redeemed shall walk there:
10 And the ransomed of the Lord shall return, and
come to Zion with songs and everlasting joy and
gladness, and sorrow and sighing shall flee away.
The wayfaring men are men who fare by the way and are
hot acquainted with the territory through which they
are passing, and they must be guided, who know that
they cannot guide themselves.
To the corinthians Paul made the following statement!
Cor 3:18
Let no man deceive himself. If amyman among you
seemeth to be wise in this world, let him become
a fool, that he may be wise.
The fool of Isaiah 35, of 1Cor. 3 and of the poor in
spirit of the beatitudes.
3
This is reference to the humble hearted who depend upor
God for direction, and in accepting the conditions of
the gospel will be guided into the kingdom.
It was the day of Pentacost these words were fulfilled
for it was that day the events recorded in Acts 2 did
the kingdom come
