1
THE CALLED OUT BODY
I Meaning of the term church.
Meaning " of our belonging to the Lord".
Literal meaning of term "To call out".
The church then in New Testament scriptures means
" A called out body of people".
The word church is used in two senses in the New Testament
1. Referring to all those called out of the world into
Gods service . This term is used when ever a member
of the church in all the world is spoken of as one
body of people. As in Matthew 16 : 18 " And I say
unto thee that thou art Peter and upon this rock I
will build my church;aand the gates of Hell shall
not prevail against it !!
Ephesians 5:23-25 "For the husband is the head of
the wife, even as Christ is the head of the church;
and he is the savior of the body. 24. Therefore as
the church is subject unto Christ so let the wives
be to their own husbands in everything.
25. Husbands love your wives, even as Christ also
loved the church and gave himself for it;
2. It also refers to those " Called out" into Gods
service in any definite locality.
I Cor. 2 : 2 Unto the church of God which is at
Corinth, to them that are santified in Christ Jesus,
called to be saints, with all that in every place
called upon the name of Jesus Christ our Lord, both
theirs and ours :
I Thes. 1 : 1 Paul and Silvanus and Timotheus unto
the church of the Thesalonians which is in God the
father, and in the Lord Jesus Christ; grace be unto
you, and paace, from God our father, and the Lord
Jesus Christ.
II
The nature of this calling.
1. Called of God-a divine calling. I Peter 5 : 10
But the God of all grace , who hath called us unto his
eternal glory by Christ Jesus, after that ye have
suffered awhile, make you perfect, stablish, strengthen
settle you:
I Cor. 7:15 But if the unbelieveing depart, let him
depart. A brother or sidter is not under bondage in
such cases: but God hath called us to peace.
II Tim. 1 : 7-9 For God hath not given us the spirit of
fear; but of power and of love and of a sound mind.
8. Be not therefore ashamed of the testimony of our Lord
nor of me his prisoner but thou partaker of the afflictions
of the gospel, oaccording to the power of God; 9. Who
hath saved us, and called us with an holy calling, not
according to our works, but according to his own purpose
and grace, which was given us in Christ Jesus before the
world began.
2. Called into fellowship and peace of Christ-into one body.
I Cor. 1:9 God is faithful by whom ye were called unto the
fellowship of his son Jesus Christ bur Lord.
Col. 3:15 And let the peace of God rule in your hearts to
the which ye are also called into one body; and be ye
thankful .
3 Called to be children of God.
Romans 9:25-26. As he saith also in Osee, I will call them
my people, which were not my people; and her beloved which
was not beloved. 26. And it shall come to pass, that in
the place where it was said unto them, ye are not my
people; there shall they be called the children of the
living God.
I John 3:1 Behold what manner of love the father hath
bestowed upon us, that we should be called the sons of.
God / Therefore the would knowest us not, because it knew
hhim not.
4. Called to be saints
Romans 1:7 To all that be in Rome, beloved of God called
to be saints: grace to you, and peace, from God our father,
and the Lord Jesus Christ.
5. A holyly calling.
I Thes. 4:7 For God hath not called us unto uncleaness, but
unto holiness.
II Tim. 1:9
I Peter 1:15 But as he which hath called you as holy, so be
ye holy in all manner of conversation.
6. A heavenly calling.
Hebrews 3:1 Wherefore holy brethern partakers of the heavenly
3
calling consider the apostle and high priest of our profession
Christ Jesus.
III
How we are called.
1. Made possible by suffering of Christ:
Peter 2:21 For even hereunto were ye called; because Christ
alse suffered for us, leaving us an example, that ye
should follow his steps:
2. Out of darkness.
I Peter 2:9 But ye are a chosen generation, a royal priest-
hodd an holy nation, a peculiar people; that ye should
shew forth the praises of him who hath called you out
of darkness into his marvelous light.
3. By the gospel of Christ.
II Thes. 2:13-14 But we are bound to always give thanks to
Bod for you, brethern beloved of the lord, because God
hath from the beginning chosen you to salvation through
santification of the spirit, and belief of the truth:
14. Whereunto he called you by our gospel, to the attain-
ing of our Lord Jesus Christ.
IV The hope of this calling.
1. That we may be worthy.
II Thes. 1:11-12 Wherefore also we pray always for you, that
our God would count you worthy of this calling, and
fulfill all the good pleasure of his goodness, and
the work of faith with power; 12. That the name of
our Lord Jesus Christ may be glorified in you and ye
in him, according to the grace of our God and the
Lord Jesus Christ.
Ephesians 4: 1-3 I therefore, the prisioner of the Lord
beseech you that ye walk worthy of the vocation
wherewith ye are called, 2. With all lowliness and
meekness with long suffering forbearing one another
in love; 3. Endeavoring to keep the unity of the
spirit in the bond of peace.
2. To inherit a blessing.
I Peter 3:9 Not rendering evil for evil or railing for rail-
ing but contrariwise blessing; knowing that ye are
4
thereunto called that ye should inherit a blessing.
3. Unto perfection.
Phillipians 3: 13-16
Brethern I count not myself to have
apprehended: but this one thing I do, forgetting those
things which are behind and reaching forth unto those things
which are before, 14. I press toward the mark, for the
prize of the high calling of God in Christ desus. 15. Let
us therefore as many as be perfect, be thus minded and if
in anything ye be otherwise minded, God shall reveal even
this unto you. 16. Neverthe less whereunto we have already
attained, let us walk by the same rule, let us mind the same
thing.
4.
Make our calling and election sure.
II Peter 1:10
Wherefore the rather brethern give diligence
to make your calling and election sure; for if ye do these
things ye shall never fall.
Faith, virtue, knowledge, temperance, patience, godliness,
brotherly kindhess, and charity.
