TITLE: Church Discipline
Introduction: For the most part, discipline is thought of as being correction
only. Actually there are two kinds of discipline. (1) Preventive ... which is
teaching, training, molding, correcting, strengthening and perfecting.
(2) Corrective ... which is punishment after preventive fails.
An example of both is in our dealings with our children. We first teach them
what to do and how to do it and if they fail then we MUST discipline them correct-
ively which would be in the way of punishment. (Note: ALL discipline must be
done with love). God has always believed in both. e. g. . . Adam & Eve in the
garden of Eden. He first told them what they were allowed to do and what they
were NOT allowed to do. Then when they failed, he had to punish them (cf. Gen.
3: 1-6). In this lesson we will be talking about "CORRECTIVE DISCIPLINE!"
I. Whose Responsibility Is It?
The Bible definitely teaches that responsibility belongs to everyone.
We have
and will always have an individual responsibility toward ourselves. Elders are
"To take heed unto themselves (Acts 20: 28)." They must do this BEFORE they
can take heed to anything else. They must regard themselves FIRST! The main
reason is because of their influence as leaders of God's people. Christian mem-
bers have the responsibility to take heed unto themselves also. Jesus said,
"Look therefore whether light that is in thee be darkness. " (Lk. 11: 35). Paul
later wrote, "Test yourselves to see if we are of the faith. " (II Cor. 13: 5).
Therefore the conclusion follows, WE MUST FIRST TAKE HEED TO OURSELF!
The Bible teaches individual responsibility toward our brothers and sis-
ters in Christ. Contrary to belief of some christians, we DO have this duty.
Jesus taught this principle in Matt. 5: 23-24 and Matt. 18: 15-17. The inspired
writers later taught: "Restore those who are weak (Gal. 6: 1-2); Snatch them
(men) from the fire (Jude 23); Convert sinners (James 5: 19-20)."
Responsibility also falls upon the whole church. Most are content to let
someone else do it or let the eldership do it. True, the responsibility for action
and lead in all things must be assumed by the eldership. But, this does not re-
lieve the church. She is directly charged with the action. (cf. I Cor. 5: 4-5).
Notice in this passage of scripture that there is not one mention of the eldership.
Neither are they mentioned in the first step of Matt. 18: 15-17. Although, they
certainly are included as being "brothers" or christians.
Having established responsibility belongs to all ....
II. How Do We Discipline Correctively?
In order to bring anything to the attention of another it becomes necessary
to go to the person who is doing the wrong (cf. Mt. 18: 15-17). For example,
we generally know when an individual is forsaking the assembly. (BY THE
VERY FACT HE OR SHE IS ABSENT)! Whose responsibility does this become ?
The brotherhood as individuals first. . . LATER the whole church as being
gathered together. (cf. Gal. 6: 1-2; James 5: 19-20; Jude 23). Naturally,
there will be some who will not listen to admonitions from a single person.
However, in most cases the Ist step WILL work. If it doesn't then the second
step becomes necessary.
Page two
One of the most plaguing question before initiation of the second step is;
"How many times must we go?" Sorry to say, the number of times is not spec-
ified. Paul used three times (cf. 2 Cor. 13: 1-2), on another occasion two times
(cf. Titus 3: 10-11). This has to be left to the judgment of the person doing the
admonishing and of course, the eldership. If steps one and two fail then it be-
comes the whole church's responsibility as a group. The church should be told
and exhorted to help. They should make it a point to see the individual and ad-
monish him to obey. If this fails after given period of time ... "Let him be as a
heathen and publican." (Mt. 18: 15-17). This is Jesus' way of saying have noth-
ing to do with him. Do not become partaker of his sin by refusing to condemn
it (cf. 2 Jn. 9-11).
III. What Is The Purpose of Discipline ?
Why do we discipline our children? Because of their welfare and to save the
soul. If we have their welfare and soul in mind we will discipline them because
we love them. The same thing is true in regard to church discipline. It is ad-
ministered to save the soul. (I Cor. 5: 5). Sometimes corrective discipline is
not necessary, but only when we have assumed our responsibility to each other
thru preventive discipline. God wants the church without "spot or wrinkle or
any such thing." To God sin is contagious and if allowed to grow it becomes like
typhoid fever! (cf. I Cor. 5: 6). Discipline should be looked upon as spiritual
medicine to a diseased member!
Discipline is also administered to save the world. Ananias & Sapphira were
disciplined for their sin and because of it the "great fear came upon all the
church and upon as many as heard these things." (Acts 5: 11). It made the
world sit up and take notice that God does hate sin and will punish man for it!
He does not want man to deliberately engage in sin and still call himself a
christian and a member of the body of Christ !
IV. How Should The Disciplined Be Treated?
It seems that some believe a formal statement is necessary. When it is made
we are relieved of "ALL" responsibility. That we do not have to go any farther.
When one leaves the church they have "withdrawn from us, therefore we have
no obligation." But God instructs "THAT WE ARE TO HAVE NO COMPANY
WITH HIM!" (I Cor. 5: 9-13; 2 Thess. 3: 14); "WITH SUCH A ONE NO, NOT TO
EAT !" (I Cor. 5: 11); "NOT TO TREAT HIM AS AN ENEMY !" (I Thess. 3: 15);
"ADMONISH HIM AS A BROTHER !" (I Thess. 3: 15).
The design of such action is to create shame (I Thess. 3: 14). Admonishing
him as a brother does not mean that he is to be completely left along. A brother
is always a brother ! Maybe unfaithful, but they are still part of the family of
God. It is right therefore, to continue to try to admonish him. OUR RESPONSI-
BILITY DOES NOT END WITH WITHDRAWAL OF FELLOWSHIP!
Page three
But how far or to what extent do we carry withdrawal of fellowship? The
answer is found in I Cor. 5: 9-11. "Not to company. .. yet not altogether with
fornicators of this world. . . for then must ye needs go out of the world ... not to
keep company. "
You cannot bring one who is "walking disorderly" into your house (fellowship)
without bidding him God-speed and being guilty as he is (partaker of his evil deeds
(2 Jno. 9-11). On the other hand, if that individual is in a public place you can-
not "altogether" remove yourself or for then "must ye needs go out of this world."
If you (any of your family) happen to go to the same public place and find there
one who has been withdrawn from, this doesn't mean you have to completely re-
move yourself from the premises. But in my own opinion, you should separate
yourself as much as possible !
Church discipline, no matter how hard it is to accept, or how obnoxious it
may seem, IS A COMMAND (cf. 2 Thess. 3: 6). To continue to extend fellow-
ship, in spite of commands, is to be a "partaker of evil deeds" (2 Jno. 9-11);
to be in direct defiance of eldership authority (Heb. 13: 17); and "walking dis-
orderly" (2 Thess. 3: 14).
If all christians (elders & preachers included), would carry out their christian
responsibility (Mt. 18: 15-17; Gal. 6: 1-2; Jude 23) then the church would enter
the picture very seldom in regard to corrective discipline.
Church discipline is for whom it applies: "erring" members of Christ's
church (cf. I Cor. 5: 11-13).
LESSON TWO: TITLE: Objections to Withdrawing Fellowship.
Introduction: Arguments are always so futile. But man, being the character
he is, always tries to justify his actions. When all is said and done GOD WILL
HAVE HIS WAY! As in the case of baptism, many objections are offered to
withdrawing of fellowship! Some of the objections most offered are:
I. There is no N. T. authority for it; WE ARE JUDGING!
Such comments is the typical reaction of so many. The reason is because of
a lack of knowledge of the scriptures. The biblical truth is; there are two types
of judging. One we cannot do; second we are told to do. Cf. Matt. 7: 1-2 ....
.... Harsh, critical judgment is condemned. Here Jesus has reference to
opinions or circumstances as basis of judgment instead of being based upon facts.
I Cor. 5: 3, 12 .... Paul makes reference to judgment based upon pure evidence
or fruit of one's life. THIS ONE WE ARE COMMANDED TO EXERCISE!
II. We are to be disciples of love; IT SHOWS THAT WE DO NOT LOVE THEM.
We use reasoning in religion like we do in no other walk of life. For example;
we believe in discipline of our children and discipline measures in school. But
when it comes to religion, we cry it is inhumane! Discipline is to be adminis -
tered because of love and concern not because of hatred toward an individual.
Page four
III. The Bible teaches forgiveness; WE ARE TO BE FORGIVING.
True, but when are we suppose to forgive? NOT in sins ! (Lk. 17: 3; I Jno. 5:
15-16).
Therefore, there MUST be repentance!
IV. It hardens their heart; IT DOES MORE HARM THAN GOOD!
How many of us honestly believe this ? If we do, we must stop punishing our
children for doing wrong. Instead of talking about what it may or may not do;
talk about what the Bible says it did and will do. It caused the man of 2 Cor. 2
to repent. Teaching baptism for the remission of sin may harden someone's
heart but are we going to quit teaching and practicing it ?
V. The Elders are taking too much authority.
This objection would be valid if discipline were an invention of men, but
instead it is from God. God making them overseers, have part of this as their
area of oversight (cf. Heb. 13: 17).
In regard to this argument there are words of caution in order. It is a fear-
ful thing to accuse or challenge the eldership and their authority! To show how
God looks upon this there are examples within his word. (I) 250 princes of
Israel were destroyed for like sin (Num. 16). (2) 14, 700 people died in the
plague of God's wrath because they complained about the death of the princes.
In summation, discipline is not pleasant. It is not pleasant to punish
our children. It is not pleasant to punish a brother or sister in Christ.
But also remember, IT WASN'T PLEASANT FOR JESUS TO DIE ON THE
CROSS! BUT HE DID! !
Note: These two sermons certainly do not contain all of the information
on this subject. But this printed material is to be informative and is present-
ed in hope that it will be helpful.
- DG-
