1
THE FIFTH COMMANDMENT
Honor Thy Father and Thy Mother
Exodus 20:12
Honor thy father and thy mother, that thy days may
be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth
thee. There is a degree of affectionate respect
which is owing to parents, that no person else can
properly claim. For a considerable time parents
stand, as it were, in the place of God to their
children, and therefore rebellion against their
lawful commands have been considered as rebellion
against God. This precept therefore prohibits,
not only all injurious acts, irreverent and unkind
speeches to parents, but enjoins all necessary acts
of kindness, respect and obedience. We can scarcely
suppose that a man honors his parents who, when they
fall weak, blind, or sick, does not exert himself
to the uttermost in their support. In such cases
God as truly requires the children to provide for
their parents, as he required the parents to feed,
nourish, support, instruct, and defend the children
when they were in the lowest state of helpless
infancy.
Read Genesis 48:8-15
That thy days may be long. This as the apostle
obersves is the first commandment to which God has
annexed a promise; and therefore we may learn in
some measure how important the duty is in the sight
of God.
In Deuteronomy 5:16 it is said, and that it may go
well with thee; we may therefore conclude that it
will go ill with the disobedient; and there is no
doubt that the untimely deaths of many young persons
are the judicial consequence of their disobedience
to their parents. Most who come to an untimely end
are obliged to confess that this, with the breach
of the Sabbath, was the principal cause of their
ruin.
Reader, art thou guilty? Humble thyself therefore
before God, and repent.
Walling 1-7-79 pm
2
1.
As children are bound to go to the aid of their
parents, so parents are bound to educate and instruct
their children in all useful and necessary knowledge,
and not to bring them up either in ignorance or
idleness.
2.
They should teach their children the fear and
knowledge of God, for how can they expect affection
or dutiful respect from those who have not the
fear of God before their eyes? Those who are best
trained. are generally the most dutiful.
Heathens
also taught respect to parents.
Exodus 21 :15
And he that smiteth his father or his mother, shall
be surely put to death. .
Exodus 21 :17
And he that curseth his father, or his mother, shall
surely be put to death.
Read Deut 21:18-21
3
Read Ephesians 6:1-5
