1
THE SIXTH COMMANDMENT
Thou Shalt Not Kill
Exodus 20:13
This commandment, which is general, prohibits
murder of every kind.
As we study this lesson, we must keep in mind that
we're studying a subject which is dealt with in the
Old Testament and the New.
Under the Old Law killing in lawful war was not
prohibited. God commanded his children to go to
war on numerous occasions. Under the Old Law
killing was not forbidden in our own necessary
defense.
This is a question which members of the church are
continuously facing.
Should a Christian favor capital punishment? Under
the law of Moses there were a number of offenses
for which capital punishment was imposed.
Let us
review some of these reasons.
Exodue 21:12
12 He that soiteth a man, so that he die, shall be
surely put to death.
14 Bul if a man come prosumpluously upon his
neighbor, to slay him with guile; thou shalt tako
him from mine altar, that ho may die.
15 And he Lhal smitoth his fathor, or his mother,
shall be surely pul to death.
16 And ho that stoaleth a man, and solloth him,
or if ho bo found in his hand, he shall surely be
put to death.
17 And he that cursoth his father, or his mother,
shall surely bo put to death.
28 if an ox gore a man or a woman,
that they did:
then the ox shall be surely stoned,
Walling 1=28-79 -pm
2-4-79 pm
2
and his flesh shall not be eaten; but the owner of
the ox shall quit.
Exodus 22: 18
18 Thou shalt 'suffer a wisch to live.
not
Loviticus 20:10
10
And the man that committoth adultery with
another man's wife, even he that committeth
adultery with his neighbor's wife, the adulterer
and the adulteress shall surely be put to death.
27 A mar also or woman that hath a Familiar spirit,
or that is a wizard, shall surely be put to death:
choy whall stone them with stones; their blood
shall be apor them,
Loviticus 24:17
17 And he that killeth any man shall surely be
put to death.
16 And he that blasphemoth the name of the Lord,
ke shall surely be put to death, and all the
congragation shall certainly store him: as well
the stranger, as he that is born in the land, when
he blasphemeth the name of the Lord, shall be put
to death.
THE NEW TESTAMENT LAS
xatthow 5:21-22
21
Ye have heard that it was said by them of old
time, Thou shalt not kill; and whosoever shall kill
shall be in danger of the judgement:
22 But I say unto you, That whosoever is angry with
his brother without a cause shall be in danger of
the judgement: and whosoever shall say to his brother,
Raca, shall be in danger of the council: but
whosoever shall say, Thou fool, shall be in danger
of hell fire.
3
This is a clear reference to the Law of Judah.
What Christ did at this point in his teachings is
bold, daring, and sensational beyond anything
anyone could imagine today. Here was the case of a
prophet, yet relatively unknown, placing himself
squarely on the record as superior to the law of
Moses, even the Decalogue. Christ in this chapter
mentioned several of the commandments, exposed
their weakness, and specifically elevated his own
will and teachings above them.
Jesus opposed the Pharisees and their way of life
as essentially sinful in spite of all their cermonies
tithes, along with countless ceremonies of their
own.
Thou shalt not kill
Under the law did not prohibit hate, the cause of
killing. One might keep the Law while at the same
time hating his enemy, hoping some evil would befall
him; such as lightening --- wild beast --- poision
serpent etc.
Raca ----- empty head
Thou fool
All these expressions spring from the heart and are
not to be used by the brethen.
Road Nasthey 22:16-21
Davids Repentenog for, and confession of, the
Murder of Trich.
ISalIS 51:1-17
