1
THE THIRD COMMANDMENT
Against False Swearing, Blasphemy, and Irreverent
Use of the Name of God
Exodus 20:7
Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God
in vain: for the Lord will not hold him guiltless
that taketh his name in vain.
FORBIDS :
False oaths
Common swearing (where the name of Godis use
Light and irreverent mention of God.
Every prayer that is not accompianed with
deep reverence and the genuine spirit of
piety.
Even heathens treated the names of their Gods with
reverence.
Whatever the person himself may think or hope,
however he may plead in his own behalf, and and say
he intends no evil, if he in any takes the name
of God in vain, God will not hold him guiltless.
IN THE NEW TESTAMENT
Matthew 5: 33-37
33 Again, ye have heard that it hath been saidby
them of old time, Thou shalt not forswear thyself,
but shalt perform unto the Lord thine oaths:
They dishonor the great God, and break this
commandment, who use frequent oaths and imprecations,
even in reference to things that are true; and those
who make vows and promises, which they either cannot
perform, or do not design to fulfill, are not less
criminal.
Swearing in civil matters should not become so
common that the dread and obligation are lost.
The Jews maintained that a man might swear with
his lips and annul it in his heart.
Walling 12-24-78 pm
2
34
But I say unto you, swear not at all; neither
by heaven; for it is God's throne:
Much has been said of the propriety of swearing
in civil cases before a magistrate. The best way
is to have as little to do with oaths as possible.
An oath will not bind a liar ..
An honest man needs none.
Hebrews 3:11
35 Nor by the earth; for it is his footstool:
neither by Jerusalem; for it is the city of the
great King.
A common swearer is constantly perjuring himself:
such a person should never be trusted.
When we make any promise contrary to the command
of God, taking, as a pledge of our sincerity,
either God, or something belonging to him, we
engage that which is not ours, without the Master's
consent. God manifests his glory in heaven, as
upon his throne; he imprents the footsteps of his
perfections upon the earth, his footstool; and
shows that his holiness and his grace reign in
his temple as the place of his redisence. Let it
be our constant care to seek and honor God in all
his works ..
36 Neither shalt thou swear by thy head, because
thou canst not make one hair white or black.
FOR THESE REASONS :
1
God commands thee not to do it.
2 Thou hast nothing which is thy own, and thou
shouldst not pledge anothers property.
3 It never did, and never can, answer any good
purpose.
4 Being a breach of the law of God, it is the
way to everlasting misery.
3
37
But let your communication be, Yea, y ea, Nay, nay:
for whatsoever is more of these cometh of evil.
In some of our old elementary books for children
we have this maxim:
"Never swear: for he that swears will lie; and
he that lies will steal; and, if so, what bad things
will he not do!"
Reading made easy.
