1
THE FIRST COMMANDMENT
Against Idolatry
Exodus 20 :1- 3
And God spake all these words, saying,
2. I am the Lord thy God, which have brought thee
out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of
bondage.
3 Thou shalt have no other gods before me.
All these words ;
Instructions had been given to the people for them
coming up where God was. God made himself known
in his glorious majesty. It would have been natural
for them to rush upon him. Regardless of their
washing and purifying themselves they were still
defiled. Divine justice and purity could not let
these people stand in his immediate presence.
When Moses, therefore, had gone down and spoken all
these words, and he and Aaron had reascended the
mount, then the Divine Being, as supreme legislator,
is majestically introduced thus :
And God spake saying.
This gives a dignity to the commencement of this
chapter of which the clause above mentioned, if
not referred to the speech of Moses, deprives it.
The laws delivered on Mt Sinai have been variously
named.
God calls them
MY COVENANT
A covenant is an agreement entered into between
two people or two groups of people. In the lesson
under consideration the covenant was between God
and the Israelites.
In this lesson the covenant was God would take the
people of Israel for his peculiar people, If they
took him for their God and portion. (divided inherit)
Walling 12-10-78 pm
2
If ye will obey my voice indeed, and keep my
covenant, then shall ye be a peculiar treasure unto
me. And the word covenant here evidently refers
to the laws given in this chapter
is evident from
Deut 4:13
And he declared unto you his covenant, which he
commanded you to perform, even ten commandments ;
and he wrote them upon two tables of stone.
They have also been termed the moral Law because
they contain and lay down rules for the regulation
for the manners or conduct of men.
Sometimes they have been termed theLaw, by way of
eminence, as containing the grand system of spiritual
instruction, direction, guidance &c.
And frequently the Decalogue, which is literally
translated the TEN WORDS of Moses.
They are generally termed first tables and second
tables.
First table:
First, second, 1 third and fourth Comm
This comprehends the whole system of theology.
The second table contain the last six commandments.
These are the duties man owes to his fellow man.
The peace and happiness of society depend on this
performance.
By this division:
The first table contains our duty to God,
The second table contains our duty to man.
3
This division refers us to the grand principle,
love to God
love to man
2 I am the Lord thy God
Each one should take this as meaning individually.
2b
Brought thee out of the land of Egypt
By this very thing proved himself to be superior
to all gods, unlimited in power, and most gracious
as well as fearful in operation. This is the
introduction but should not be seperated from the
commandment.
Thou shalt have no other gods before me.
Our God had given proof of his power:
Delivered from the Egyptians
Divided the Red Sea
Brought water out of the rock
Fed them with quails and manna
Directed them with a pillar of cloud
By these miracles God had rendered himself
familiar to them.
