1
I John 1:9
If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just'
to forgive us our sins, and to cleanse us from
all unrighteousness.
If we confess our sins ...
To whom shall sing be confessed?
Certainly, the usual concept of a confessional
in a church, where confession is a one way street,
is not what is meant here.
Confession of sins "one to another' among
christians means an admission of guilt where it
exists as a barrier to their fellowship, a mutual
sharing of blame, and a restoration of broken
harmony.
It is difficult for man to admit blame and guilt.
Today, society has an excuse for all manner of
sin.
All sinners must repent and turn to God.
Our sins. . .
God is faithful in that he will not go back on
the promise he made in Christ Jesus. He is faithful
because he has promised to do so, and just
because his Son died for our sins.
God may justly forgive us, because Christ paid
the penalty that was due
But doesnt the bible say, "Confess your faults
one to another" ?
Yes, let us consider this passage very carefully.
Bethlehem
1122
11-22-87 AM
Bethlehem
9
17 00
2
James 5:14-16
14 Is any among you sick ?
Let him call for the elders of the church; and
let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in
the name of the Lord:
gifts
In the early church, when miraculous/were imprted
by the laying on of apostolic hands "as a sign
to unbelievers, " one of these was the gift of
healing. It is reasonable that the ones endowed
by the Holy Spirit with these special gifts would
have been the elders of the church.
It is probable that the mention of oil in this
passage is to be regarded as one of the
accompaniments of that miraculous healing which
was a frequent occurance in the apostolic age,
and is regarded in the NT as a supernatural
sign proving that the one who performed the
miracle was from God, that God had given him
the power and that the gospel he was to preach
was from God. The aim of the apostolic anointing
was bodily recovery, and this corresponds with
miraculous cures of early ages.
15 And the prayer of faith shall save the sick,
and the Lord shall raise him up; and if he have
committed sins, they shall be forgiven him.
The rule for all ages includes prayer for the
suffering. For those who believe that miraculous
cures are still being effected should be convinced
that their cures are not like the cures of the
NT. They are not miraculous and they do not
confirm the word.
3
Those performing the so called cures are also
different. The "faith healers" of today have
made themselves fantastically rich. The healers
are complete failures. Thousands have sought them
in vain
16 Confess your faults one to another, and pray
one for another, that you may be healed. The
effectual feverent prayer of a righteous man
availeth much.
Repentence, confession and prayers are the cond-
itions of the forgiveness of sins committed by
church members.
It is wrong to take to take James 'word here as
laying down any additional conditions of a
Christian's forgiveness.
