DUTIES OF CHRISTIANS
Titus 2: 1-10 9
To be a christian is to be like Christ.
Christianity is defined as the reproduction of the life of Chris
in the human heart. Every Christian is oblagated to reproduce
the life of Christ in his own heart.
Paul said (Gal 4: 19) My little children, of whom I am again
in travail until Christ be formed in you.
He is saying, "Until a life has been formed in you in complete
harmony with the life and mind of Christ."
High motives are assigned hor all human conduct.
In the gospel of John Ch. 7: 17 *** 圣西兰达考的考卷的前为长书书卷卷书 ==
If any man willeth to do his will, he shall know the teaching
whether it is of God, or whether I speak from myself.
The difficulty of finding out what is right in religeon is a
common complaint among men. They point to many differences
among Christians and poofess to be unable to decide what is
right. Such a one should use the knowledge he has and God will
soon give him moore.
In the gospel of James
1:23-25 We have this reading
23 For if any be a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like
unto a man beholding his natural face in a glass:
24 For he beholdeth himself, and goeth his way, and straight-
way: forgetteth what manner of man he was.
25 But whoso looketh into the perfect law of liberty, and čo
continueth therein, he being not a forgetful hearer,
but a b
doer of the work, this man shall be blessed in his deed.
2
DUTIES OF CHRISTIANS
Titus 2: 5-15
After v 9
Eph 6:5-8
5 Servants be obedient to them that are your masters according
to the flesh, with fear and trembling, in singleness of heart
your
as unto Christ;
6 Not with eyeservice, as menpleasers; but as the servants
of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart;
7 With good will doing service, as to the Lord, and not to me
med
8 Knowing that whatsoever good thing any man doeth,
the same
shall he receive of the Lord, whether he be bond or free.
Gods grace is any benefit received from him.
God came into the world that every man may receive salvation.
as the light of the sun is not withheld from any nation.
The grace of God is not witheld.
Walling
1-15-78 AM
no pm
