1
FAITH
By Faith Sarah
Hebrews 11: 11-16
Through faith also Sarah herself received strength
to conceive seed, and was delivered a child when she
was past age, because she judged him faithful who
had promised. .
12 Therefore sprang there even of one, and him as
good as. dead, so many as the stars of the sky in
multitude, and as the sand which is by the seashore
innumerable. eof
13 These all died in faith, not having received the
promises, but having seen them afar off, and were
persauded of them, and embraced them, and confessed
that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth.
14 For they that say such thingsdeclare plainly
that they seek a country.
15 And truly, if they had been mindful of that
country from whence they came out, they might have
had opportunity to have returned.
16 But now they desire a better country, that is, a
heavenly: wherefore God is not ashamed to be called
their God: for he hath prepared for them a city.
The faith of Sarah
The difficulties of Sarah's faith
The prevalency of unbelief for a time: she laughed
at the promise, as being impossible to be made good.
The great improbability of the thing promised, that
she should be the mother of a child.
The actings of her faith.
Her unbelief is pardoned and forgotten and is recorded
The rewards of her faith.
She received strength to conceive seed. He can make
the barren soul fruitful, as well as the barren womb.
She was delivered of a child, a child of promise.
From them, by this son, sprang a numerous progeny of
illustrous persons, as the stars of the sky.
Abel, Enoch, and Noah did not receive the promise of
entering the promised land, but they died in faith.
Walling 8-20-78
pm
2
The faith of the other patriachs v 13
The trial of their faith.
They had not received the promises. One imperfection
of the present state of the saints on earth is that
their promise lies more in promise than in actual
enjoyment and possession.
The actings of their faith.
Though they had not received the promises, yet,
1
They saw them afar off. Faith has a clear and a
strong eye, and can see promised mercies at a great
distance.
2 They were persauded of them, that they were true
and should be fulfilled.
3 They embraced them.
Faith has a long arm, and can lay hold of blessings
at a great distance.
4. They confessed that they were strangers and
pilgrimson earth. They are strangers as saints,
whose home is heaven; they are pilgrims as they
travel toward their home.
5 Hereby they declaired plainly that they sought
an
another country, heaven. v 14
6 They gave full proof of their sincirity .. They
were not mindful of that country whence they came.
Those that are once savingly called out of a sinful
state have no mind to return into it again; they now
know better things. They did not take the opportunity
that offered itself for their return. But they
steadfastly adhered to God. We must show the truth of
our faith and profession by a steady adherence to
God. Their sincerity appeared not only in not
returning to their former country, but in desiring
a better country, that is, a heavenly. All true
believers desire this better country. The stronger
faith is the more feverent those desires will be.
7 They died in the faith of those promises.
v 13
That faith held out to the last.
3
The gracious reward of their faith.
He is called their God. He calls himself so. He gives
them leave to call him so. God is not ashamed to be
called their God; such is his love to them. Let them
take care that they not be a shame and reproach to
their God, and so provoke him to be ashamed of them.
As the proof of this, God has prepared for them a
city, a happiness suitable to the relation into which
he has taken them. If God neither could nor would
give his people anything better than this world affo
affords, he would be ashamed to be called their God.
1
FAITH
Hebrews 11: 4-
4 By faith Abel offered unto God a more excellent
sacrifice than Cain, by which he obtained witness
that he was righteous, God testifying of his gifts:
and by it he being dead yet speaketh.
Read Genesis 4:1-16
5 By faith Enoch was translated that he should not
see death; and was not found, because God had
translated him: for before his translation he had
this testimony, that he pleased God.
6 But without faith it is impossible to please him:
for he that cometh to God must believe that he is,
and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently
seek him.
V.S
Read Genesis 5:21-24
78. Po HA
In the history of mankind, it may be said nothing of
any importance takes place from Abel to the one under
consideration at this time. Special notice must be
taken of Enoch, the seventh from Adam. The rest we
may suppose did virtuously, but he excelled them all,
and was the brightest star of the patriarchal age.
It is but little that is recorded concerning him; but
this little is enough to make his name great, greater
than the other Enoch, who had a city called by his
name .
It is twice spoken of: Enoch walked with God.
The nature of his religeon and the scope and tenor
of his conversation:
HE WALKED WITH GOD
Which denotes
True religeon; what is godliness, but walking with
God?
Walling 7-16-78
PM
Bethlehem 5-8-88 P M
2
The ungodly and profane are without God in the world,
they walk contary to him: but the Godly walk with him
which presupposes reconciliation to God, for two can-
not walk together except they be agreed.
To walk with God is to set God always before us, and
to act as those that are always under his eye. it is
to live a life of communion with God both in
ordinances and providences. it is to make Gods word
our rule and his glory our end in all actions. it is
to comply with his will, to concur with his designs,
and to be workers together with him.
Eminent religeon
He was entirely dead to this world, and did not only
walk after God, as all good men do, but he walked
with God, as if he were in heaven already. Activity
in in promoting religeon among others is called
walking with God.
The Holy Spirit instead of saying, Enoch lived, says,
Enoch walked with God; for it is the life of a good
man to walk with God.
This was:
1
The business of Enochs life ..
2
It was the joy and support of his life.
As he did not live like the rest, so he did not die
like the rest.
Heb. 11 :6
But without faith it is impossible to please him:
for he that cometh to God must believe that he is,
and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently
seek him.
1
The belief that God is:
2
That he is morally active:
et jedw :noegilsa sum"
88-8-2 modo inte
3
Hebrews 11:7
By faith Noah, being warned of God of things not seen
as yet, moved with fear, prepared an ark to the saving
of his house; by the which he condemned the world,
and became heir of the righteousness which is by
faith.
Gen. 6-7-8
Ark dimensions
450'+75'+ 45
Read and discussed three chapters of Genesis
concerning Noah and the ark
7-30 -- 78 pm at Walling
