1
WHAT MUST I DO TO GET FORGIVENISS
OF SINS AFTER I BECOME A CHRISTIAN
Give an account of the establishment of the church.
Jesus Christ has gone to Heaven.
Talk about spiritual gifts - Philip preaching im
Samaria. Why Philip could not impart spiritual
gifts.
Acts 8:9 But there was a certain man, called Simon,
which before time in the same city used sorcery,
and bewitched the people of Samaria, giving out
that himself was some great one:
It is important to note that the name of the man
is spacific. Not, "A certain man;"
10
To whom they all gave heed, from the least
to the greatest, saying, This man is the great
Npower of God.
This man was a fraud. His evil influence dominated
the whole city.
One could do tricks of magic without being deceptive.
"From the least to the greatest" (everyone)
Those not familiar with God's word become prey to
deceivers. All fortune tellers are fraud, yet
many people are deceived today.
11 And to him they had regard, because that ff
long time he had bewitched them with sorceries.
"A long time." His influence was great among the
people. They really believed Simon could do miracles
and that he was that power of God.
Bethlehem 10-4: 11 AM
1910-07 -LE
2
12 But when they believed Philip preaching the
things concerning the of God, and the name of Jesus
gdom
Christ, they were baptized, both men and women.
We can learn so much from the bible by the words
that are used interchangeably. The name kingdom
of God and the name of Jesus Christ prove the two
names mean the same thing. A parellel passage in
Matthew 16;18-19
I will build my church .. ..... I will give unto thee
the keys of the kingdom of heaven.
WHAT IT MEANS TO PREACH CHRIST
It means to preach the OT because the prophecies
are fulfilled in Christ
II It means to preach the NT because the
good news of salvation are contained therein as
was given by the apostles.
III To preach Christ is to preach all the
great facts promises and commandments of the gospel.
A Listen to a few facts of the gospel:
God entered our earth-life as a man, in the person
of Jesus of Nazareth, fulfilling the great Prophecies
of the OT: he performed the greatest wonders ever
seen on earth, even raising the dead again and
again; he was despised and rejected; he died on
the cross according to the prophecies in order
that we might have eternal life; he rose the
third day, ascended to the right hand of God,
established his church, sent the Holy Spirit, is
reigning till all enemies are destroyed; and he
will raise to life again all who ever lived on earth,
3
preside over the final judgement and appoint
all men to their destiny.
B The great promises of the gospel are
the richest treasure belonging to men. He will co
comfort them in sorrow, strengthen them in tribu
lation, love them always, and save their souls
forever. How glorious are the promises of the
gospel.
V
To preach Christ is to preach the plan of
salvation, that is, faith, repentance, confession
and baptism. It means also preaching christian
virtues.
First Law of Pardon
13.
And Simon also himself believed; and
being baptized, he continued with Philip; and
beholding signs and great miracles wrought, he
was amazed.
Simon believed and was baptized. To deny that
this was a sincere conversion is to deny the
bible.
There is an instance of a sorcerer who rejected
the gospel:
Acts 13:8-12;
Simon had to give up quite a reputation to obey
the gospel. : "
Bethlehem
10-4-87 AM
Bro L 0 Sanderson told an interesting story
about giving up a career. . .. . .
. 14 Now when the apostles that were at
Jerusalem heard that Samaria had received,
the word of God, they sent unto them Peter , ,
and John.
4
Peter and John were sent. Imagine, the Pope being
sent.
15. Who when they were come down, prayed for
them, that they might receive the Holy Ghost:
16 (For as yet he was fallen upon none of them:
only they were baptized in the name of the Lord
Jesus )as To Come.a
17 Then laid they their hands on them, and they
received the Holy Ghost.
If Philip could have conferred this gift, it would
not have been necessary for Peter and John to come
down ..
18 And when Simon saw that through laying on of
the apostles! hands the Holy Ghost was given, he
offered them money,
19Saying, Give me also this power, that on whoms-
oever I lay hands, he may receive the Holy Ghost.
20 But Peter said unto him, thy money perish with
thee; because" thou hast thought the gift of God
may be purchased with money, e
21 Thou hast neither part non lot in this matteer:
for thy heart is not right in the sight of God .....
There is a great in what men say and what the
word of God says about Simon's conversion.
22 Repent therefore of this thy wickedness, and
pray God , if perhaps the thought of thine heart
may be forgiven thee. Second Law of Pardon
Repent and pray ..... In this instance, the apostle
Peter, using the keys of the kingdom of God
(Matt 16:19), opened the way for a child of God
to get forgiveness of his sin comitted after he
became a christian.
5
According to H Leo Boles this is the second law of
pardon (Explain the first).
The door here opened for Simons return is the same
that must be entered by all christians who, when
overtaken by some sin, seek to return to the Lord.
Repent and pray is not for the alien sinner.
The alien sinner must obey the gospel.
A true Christian can apostize from the faith.
Amos 6:5
That chant to the sound of viol and invent to It
themselves instruments of music, like David
...
