God's Wrath Toward Sin (Hebrews 10:29-31)
The writer of Hebrews has already shown God's more severe pun-
ishment for those living under Christ's law (Hebrews 2:2-3). If sin was
swiftly and certainly punished under Moses' law, how much more
under the New Testament law?
Three expressions of the contemptible nature of sin are mentioned.
Sin is trampling the Son of God under foot - an expression of contempt
of the highest sort (Daniel 8:13; Malachi 4:3). We treat Jesus this way
when we sin with no thought of what our salvation cost Him. This kind
of sin does not just break God's law; it also is a sin against love and
grace. Our greatest motivation to love and serve others is based on our
understanding of Christ's love for us (Galatians 2:20; 1 John 4:11, 19).
To choose to sin is to disregard God's love for us.
Sin is also described as a misunderstanding of the meaning of
Christ's shed blood. To sin is to deny His blood's saving power and
to act as if His death were no different from any other. Paul illustrates
this in the way the Corinthians observed the Lord's Supper. He strong-
ly rebuked some who treated it as no different than a common meal
(1 Corinthians 11:27). Christ's death was necessary for His resurrection
to take place. Because of His death and resurrection we can rise from
baptism to walk in a new life (Romans 6:3-4). We are indeed correct
to sing in praise of His precious blood because of its power that has
lifted us from sin (Revelation 5:9).
To sin willfully is to deny the Spirit's power to call men to God. The
Spirit operates on the sinner's heart through the Word of God (1 Thes-
salonians 2:13; Hebrews 4:12). To deny the Spirit's power to accom-
plish this or to attribute His work to any other force is to tread on dan->
gerous ground (Matthew 12:31-32).
Some may have justified their return to the law of Moses by believ-
ing that God's punishment only rested on the wicked. The writer of
Hebrews is careful to clarify any misunderstanding. God's promise was
that He also would judge His own people (Deuteronomy 32:36).
It is not just those out of Christ who should fear God's wrath. All
should fear falling into God's hands. He can choose to punish sin in
this life (Acts 5:1-11; 13:8-11). It is certain that eternal punishment
awaits the wicked and impenitent (Matthew 25:46).
Conclusion
The church of the Lord must constantly be aware of the danger of
being overcome by the world. We are the "called out" of God and must
Nov. 14, 1999
59
avoid the world's corruption. The defilement of the world often can
come so gradually we are unaware we are being overcome until it is
too late. We do well to seek both proper environment and companion-
ship as well as recognizing the corrupting nature of the world.
Practical Observations
1. An apostate lives in sin and loves it. A Christian may lapse into sin
but will not be comfortable. All God's children will stumble, but
we are not lost until we lose any desire to return to Him.
2. One should be baptized only once. This one-time action places
one into a relationship with Christ. One can err and become a
prodigal, but this does not change the relationship. If one wants
to return to Christ, he need not be baptized again, but repent and
pray (Acts 8:19-22).
3. The allure of the world's pleasure can overcome one's knowledge
of the certainty of the judgment. Our understanding of the terror
of the Lord should constantly remind us of this event as well as en-
courage us to warn others (2 Corinthians 5:11).
Questions
1. What showed Israel the enormity of their sin in following the gold-
en calf?
2. What was the purpose in the children of Israel's destruction of the
idols they found in the land?
3. What did God promise the children of Israel?
4. What demonstrated the difficulty of the task of driving out the na-
tions in the land of promise?
5. What was Israel's role in keeping the covenant God made with
them?
6. To what did God compare the worshipping of an idol?
7. How does the Old Testament speak of willful sin?
8. How does a Christian find forgiveness?
9. What is our motivation to love and serve others?
10. What is one way to sin willfully?
For Discussion
1. How can Christians live in the world and not become polluted by it?
2. Discuss a Christian's confession of sin (1 John 1:6-10).
3. How do we tread under foot the Son of God today? How do we
treat His blood as a common thing?
60
LESSON 11
