1
THE GOODNESS OF JESUS EXEMPLIFIED THE GOODNESS OF GOD
I John 4:8
8 He that loveth not, knoweth not God; for God is
love.
God is love. . ...
This profoundly and beautiful and
encouraging statement about the father must rank,
along with others, as one of the grandest in all
scripture. Love is God's reigning attribute that
sheds an amiable glory upon all his other perfections
This has been called probably the greatest single
statement about God in the whole Bible. . . .. It is
amazing how many doors that single statement unlocks
and how many questions it answers.
God's nature is not exhausted by the quality of love.
I John 1:5
5 This then is the message which we have heard of
him, and declare unto you, that God is light, and
in him is no darkness at all.
John 4:24
24 God is a spirit: and they that worship him must
worship him in spirit and in truth.
John 14:6
6 Jesus saith unto him, I am the way, the truth,
and the life: no man cometh unto the Father, but by
me .
Those who read these precious words of John should
be aware of the holy and self-sacrificing love about
which John wrote.
I John 4:16
16 and we have known and believed the love that God
hath to us. God is love; and he that dwelleth in
love dwelleth in God, and God in him.
Bethlehem 1-31-88
PM
Walling 8-12-79
am
Brownlow P 15
2
v6
One of the great "I am's" of the Bible, this is one
of the profoundest teachings ever uttered. It
presents Jesus as the unique means of access to God.
Jesus christ is presented as the sole answer to
the human problems of sin, ignorance, and mortality.
As the way, Jesus is the answer to man's sin; as
the truth, he is the answer to man's ignorance;
and as the life, he is the answer to man's mortality
Man is not delivered from his lower life by his own
power but remains helpless without the Great
Companion.
I AM THE WAY AND THE TRUTH AND THE LIFE
Jesus is the way. Apart from him there is no
solution of the problem of sin. Part of the
problem is the universal tendency to deny that
sin exists. Every crime, however vicious, is
rationalized. The major thesis of humanism is that
there is really nothing wrong with man as he
already is. TRue, certain restrictions are admitted;
but men fancy that if they can shake off the chains
that bind them they will be all right. Strike off
their political chains, their economic chains,
their psychological inhibitions, etc ., and presto!
the new age will appear. All such human air-castles
fall fall in one awful consideration, that of the
universal wickedness of mankind. Every utopian ship
of all history has split open and sunk upon the
submerged reef of unregenerated human nature. In
trying to find out how to live, men try to evaluate
an compare various concepts and systems, and by
deduction hope to find what is best; but the
universal experience of humanity has demonstrated
that whatever of the good, the pure and the
beautiful that men have discovered_
all of it
derived from him who is the way. The sin problem
is solved only in Christ. He alone reveals man's sin,
removes him from the practice of it, remits it,
and even overrules it for his benefit_
provided
only and alwaysthat the sinner must yield himself
to the Lord and walk in his way; for he is the way.
JESUS IS THE TRUTH.
3
In this, our Lord is the answer to man's ignorance;
but, in this sector also, man professes no need,
pretending to be wise.
Apart from God, man is
ignorant of his origin, destiny, and the meaning of
life. Man cannot see one split-second into the future
but completes a house the day before an earthquake,
elects scoundrels to public office, and in all social
and political considerations moves with the
intelligence of a buffalo herd on stampede. Even
in the areas of his greatest achievements, man is
embarrassed by the fact that every truth he has ever
discovered only raised a hundred other questions
harder than the one he solved. The discovery of the
power of the atom is only the most recent example
of this. Man cannot know what caused time, space, or
matter, and does not have the slightest idea of the
extent or duration of such things. man is an infant
crying in the night with no language but a cry,
until he shall turn to him who is the truth.
Jesus is the life.
In this, he is the answer to man's mortality. Death
is an ugly problem for man, but how does he face up
to it?He will not even speak of it. Even ehen the
last agony is upon him, his physician will hardly
tell him the; his wife assures him that he is better;
and even his minister speaks of what he will do
when he gets well. What a tragic blindness it is
that forces the great, the intelligent, the prominent
and powerful on to go on living as if death had no
claim on them. In Christ only do men face up to
the fact of death and go down to the grave in peace.
With what fanfare and enthusiasm man greets every new
medicine or surgical skill; but has he abolished death
Only in Christ does the redeemed soul march onward
in the security of him who is the resurrection and
the life. Jesus taught his disciples not to fear them
that may kill the body. His is the glorious religeon
that teaches men how to live with all the facts of
life and of death. His is the only name that means
anything when spoken over the cold form of the
dead. This is the sublime truth that has sent his
church shouting down two thousand years, "0 death,
where is thy sting? 0 grave, where is thy victory?"
Jesus is the way, the truth, and the life.
