1
WHAT ARE THE GREATEST
THINGS OF LIFE
Introduction
Charity or love is no doubt the greatest and most
powerful principles of life
Charity is then personified
OBUT THERE ARE OTHER GREAT PRINCIPLES AND THINGS
OF LIFE WOROTHY OF OUR MOST SERIOUS CONSIDERATIONS
The greatest object in life is to purposely glorify
God in all that we do and say
The greatest privilege in life is the privilegeof
being "Sons of God. "
The greatest knowledge in life is to know God and
his son, Jesus Christ.
But there are still more great things of life
The greatest vocation in life is to work for God
and serve him
The greatest work in the world is the work of
winning souls
The greatest joy is the joy of salvation
The greatest victory is to overcome self and the
world
OUA LESSON SOM TOUR LESSON FOR TODAY
The greatest fellowship is with Christ and Christians
Bethlehem 12-18-88 P M
Dannie Camp preached
for the A M service
Walling 1-13-80 pm
Nichols P 155
2
I John 1:7
7 But if we walk in the light, as he is in the
light, we have fellowship one with another, and
the blood of Jesus Christ his Son, cleanseth us
from all sin.
If we walk in the light .... When the light from
God, as revealed in Christ Jesus and the preaching
Chrapostles, is entere in and walked in by
, Walking in the light shows up in
their sins and frailties, revealing the need for
constant cleansing.
Fellowship one with another
This fellowship
is also with God and his Son, Jesus Christ. This
fellowship stands for membership in the spiritual
body of Jesus Christ. The cleansing here mentioned
is not from "old sins" before conversion, but from
the sins committed in our daily lives.
The blood of Jesus his Son ...... All forgiveness
for mortals derives from this source.
Cleanseth us from all sin .....
All sin means
every act of sin. This is a great verse.
This
verse is the source of great joy. This is assurance
and consultation to the child of God. He never
needs to fear that some unintentional or impulsive
conduct might overtake him with the result of
eternal condemnation. His walking in the light
can be established by the long term directional
thrust of his whole life upon earth and cannot
be contradicted by any insignificant lapse.
Acts 2:42
42 And they continued steadfastly in the apostles'
doctrine and fellowship, and in breaking of bread,
and in prayers.
