15 Having abolished in his flesh the enmity, even
the law of commandments contained in ordinances;
for to make in himself of twain one new man, So
making peace
MIA: 28-89-4 medis
2
v3
Like a tree planted Not like one growing wild,
however strong or luxuriant it may appear; but one
that has been carefully cultivated; and for the
properof which all the advantages of soil and
situation have been chosen. If a child be brought
up in the discipline and admonition of the Lord, we
have both reason and revelation to encourage us to
expect a godly and useful life. Where religeous
education is neglected; what fruits of righteousness
can be expected ??
An uncultivated soul is like
an uncultivated field, all overgrown with briars,
thorns, and thistles.
By the rivers of waters
See Deut 11:10-11
the streams or
divisions of waters. Refering to the custom of
irrigation in the eastern countries, where streams
are conducted from a canal or river to different
parts of the ground, and turned off or on at pleasure;
the person having no more to do than by his foot to
turn a sod from the side of one stream, to cause it
to share its waters with the other parts to which
he wishes to direct his course. This is called
"Watering the land with the foot. "
See Matthew 21 : 19-20 P 3
His fruit in his season
In such a case expectation
is never disappointed. Fruit is expected, fruit is
borne; and it comes also in the time in which it
should come. A godly education, under the influence
of the Divine Spirit, which can never be withheld
where they are earnestty sought, is sure to produce
the fruits of righteousness; and he who reads, prays,
and meditates, will ever see the work which God has
given him to do; the power by which he is to perform
it; and the times, places, and opportunities for
doing those thingsby which God can obtain most
glory, his own soul most good, and his neighbor
most edification.
His leaf also shall not wither
His profession
of true religeon shall always be regular; and his
faith be ever shown by his works. As the leaves and
the fruit are the evidences of the vegetative
perfectionof the tree; so a zealous religeous
profession, accompanied with good works, are the
evidences of the soundness of faith in the Christian
man.
3
Whatsoever he doeth shall prosper
It is always
healthy; it is extending its roots, increasing its
woody fibres, circulating its nutritive juices,
putting forth fruitbuds, blossoms, leaves, or fruit;
and all these operations go on, in a healthy tree,
in their proper seasons. So the godly man; he is ever
taking deeper root, growing stronger in the grace he
has already received, increasing in heavenly desires,
and, under the continual influence of the Divine
Spirit, forming those purposes from which much fruit
to the glory and praise of God shall be produced.
Christians have also been planted
Romans 6:3-5
3 Know ye not, that so many of us as were baptized
into Jesus Christ were baptized into his death?
Therefore we are buried with him by baptism into
death: that like as Christ was raised up from the
dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also
should wall in newness of life.
5 For if we have been planted together in the
likeness of his death, we shall be also in the
likeness of his resurrection:
Matthew 21-19-20
And when he saw a fig tree in the way, he came to it
and found nothing there on, but leaves only, and
said unto it, let no fruit grow on thee henceforward
forever. and presently the fig tree witherer away.
20
and when the disciples saw it, they marvelled,
saying, How soon is the fig tree withered away.
Deut 11:10-11
10 For the land whither thou goest in to possess it,
is not as the land of Egypt, from whence ye came out,
where thou sowedst thy seed, and wateredst it with
thy foot, as a garden of herbs:
11 But the land, whither ye go to possess it, is a
land of hills and valleys, and drinketh water of
the rain of heaven:
