1
IS SALVATION IN THE CHURCH
Introduction
This queation has nothing to do with a denomination,
but has reference to the church which Christ built
on the rock.
Matthew 16:18
And I say also unto thee, That thou art Peter, and
upon this rock I will build my church; and the gates
of hell shall not prevail against it.
Christ built but one church, while men have built
hundreds differing from the church of Christ in the
New Testament.
Many say, "But one church is as good as another. "
Is that statement true, provided the church of Christ
in the New Testament is included?
Is one man as good as another, if Christ be included
in the list?
Is one book as good as another if the Bible is in
the number considered?
HAS GOD PROMISED SALVATION OUT OF THE CHURCH ????
Some seem to think that the church is some sort of
a detour off the strait and narrow way that leads
to life eternal.
Matthew 7:13-14
Enter ye in at the strait gate; for wide is the gate,
and broad is the way, that leadeth to destruction,
and many there be which go in thereat:
14 Because strait is the gate, and narrow is the
way , which leadeth unto life, and few there be that
find it.
God said through the prophet that He would put
salvation in Zion:
Isaiah 46:12-13
Bethlehem 4-17-88 P M
12 Hearken unto me, ye stout hearted, that are far
from righteousness :
Walling 10-29-78
2
Isaiah 46:13
13 I bring near my righteousness: it shall not be
far off, and my salvation shall not tarry: and I
will place salvation in Zion for Israel my glory.
v12 Tjis is an address to the Babylonians,
stubbornly bent on the practice of injustice
towards the Israelites.
Paul says that Zion is the church.
Hebrews 12:21-23
And so terrible was the sight, that Moses said,
"I exceedingly fear and quake: "
22 But ye are come unto mount Sion, and unto the
city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem,
and to an innumerable company of angels,
23 To the general assembly and church of the first
born, which are written in heaven, and to God the
Judge of all, and to the spirits of just men made
perfect,
He shaws how much the gospel church represents the
church triumphant in heaven. The gospel church is
called Mount Zion, the heavenly Jerusalem. In co
coming to Mount Zion, believers come into heavenly
places, and into a heavenly society.
INTO HEAVENLY PLACES
1 Unto the city of the living God.
God has taken up his gracious residence in the
gospel church, which on that account is an emblem
of heaven
2 To the heavenly Jerusalem,
as free citizens there.
TO A HEAVENLY SOCIETY
1 To an innumerable company of angels.
Those who by faith are joined to the angels, and
shall at length be like them,
2 To the general assembly of the church of the
first born, that are written in heaven, to the un
universal church, however dispersed. By faith we
come to them;
have
communion with them in the same
3
blessed hope, and walk in the same way of holiness.
Here will be the general assembly of the first-born,
the saints of former and earlier times.
The names of these are written in heaven:
they have
a name in God's house, and are enrolled in the Lamb's
book of life, as citizens are enrolled in the
livery-books.
To God the Judge of all,
that great God who will judge both Jew and Gentile
according to the law they are under.
4 To the spirits of just men made perfect;
To the best sort of men, the righteous, to the best
part of just men, their spirits, and to these in
their best state, made perfect.
The word church is used in the New Testament about
110 times :
18 times, the word refers to the
church in its general sense including all the saved.
About 92 times, refers to congregations.
End here
Ephesians 2:14-16
10-29-78
am
14 For he is our peace, who hath made both one,
and hath broken down the middle wall of partition
between us;
15 Having abolished in his flesh the enmity, even
the law of commandments contained in ordinances;
for to make in himself of twain one new man, so
making peace;
16 And that he might reconcile both unto God in
one body by the cross, having slain the enmity thereb
thereby.
discussed at
"See page 4"
p 4
To here 11-5-78
Church is from EKKLESSIA and means those called out
from the world. Hence, the church includes all the
saved
all who have been called out of the
world by the gospel.
Petros stone Petros
II Thessalonians 2:14
Petra great ledge
solid
bed rock
14 Whereunto he called you by our gospel, to the
obtaining of the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Colossians 3:15
4
Colossians 3:15
15 And let the peace of God rule in your hearts,
to the which also ye are called in one body; and
be ye thankful.
Colossians 1:13, 18, 24
13 Who hath delivered us from the power of darkness,
and hath translated us into the kingdom of his dear
son :
18 And he is the head of the body, the church: who
is the beginning, the first-born from the dead; that
in all things he might have the preeminence.
To
here 11-12-78
am -- ----
24 Who now rejoice in my sufferings for you, and
fill up that which is behind of the afflictions of
Christ in my flesh for his bodys sake, which is the
church :
Christ built the church. Would he have built a non-
essential and useless institution, if men could be
saved out of it?
Christ built the church on the rock. May a man be
saved who builds on the sand, rather than in the ch
church and on the rock?
Acts 2: 47
47 Praising God and having favor with all the people
And the Lord added to the church daily such as should
be saved.
One new race
discussed
A royal priesthood
DO -----
11-5-78
am
A chosen nation
-
A peculiar people
Gus Nichols Outline P 24
5
IF SALVATION IS OUT OF THE CHURCH, THEN IT IS OUT-
SIDE OF THAT WHICH THE CHURCH IS
The church is the body of Christ
Ephisians 1:22-23
22 And hath put all things under his feet, and
gave him to be the head over all things to the church
23 Which is his body, the the fulness of himthat
filleth all in all.
The exultation, the head and the ruler were given
him after he was raised from the dead.
We are exaulted after we are raised from the dead.
This is in the spiritual realm. We rise from the
waters of baptism. After this resurrection we have
sonship in Christ. This is the gift of the Holy
Spirit. Our sins are wiped away. We can pray and
God will hear our prayer.
If we can be saved out of the church, then we can
be saved out of the body of Christ, with no connection
with christ the head.
Christ is the Savior of the body.
Ephesians 5:23
23 For the husband is the head of the wife, even
as Christ is the head of the Church: and he is the
Savior of the body.
Every organization must have a head.
Christ has ordained that the husband is the head,
and yet, the head of the family can only rule the
wife in the most devoted way.
2 The church is the kingdom of Christ. If one is
saved outside of the church then he is saved outside
of the kingdom.
Walling 11-12-78
To here, Walling 11-26-78
Bethlehem 4-24-88 P M
am
6
Matthew 16:18-19
18 And I say unto thee, That thou art Peter, and
upon this rock I will build my Church; and the gates
of hell shall not prevail against it.
19 And I will give unto thee the keys of the
kingdom of Heaven:
and whatsoever thou shalt bind
on earth shall be bound in Heaven; and whatsoever
thou shalt loose on earth shalt be loosed in Heaven.
This is the first time Jesus speaks of his church,
and here, as not yet founded. These terms are to be
noted: Peter in the Greek, Petro, meaning a single
stone; Rock in the Greek, Petra, which means the
solid, immovable, bed-rock, a great mass like a cliff
and 3 church, Greek, ecclesia, those "called out"
the fellowship of believers, the organized society
of Christ, the kingdom of heaven on earth. There is
probably no passage in the word of God that has ca
called forth more discussion. The Papal church
insists That Peter is the rock upon which Christ
foundedohis church. The Catholic position is based
on the fact that Peter means a stone, and the
Savior's language might be rendered, "Thou art a
stone, and upon this rock I will build my church. "
The Catholic view is untenable, that is, cannot be
defended, for, 1. The Savior does not say, "Thou a
art a stone, and upon thee I will build, " etc ., or,
"Thou art a rock, and upon this rock I will build. "
He changes the word in the Greek from Petros (Peter,
a stone) to Petra, a rock, or ledge of rock ausolid
bed-rock. 2 Every saint is a stone. The Lord declares
that Peter is one of these living stones, made such
by his confession of faith, and ready to build into
the church, the spiritual temple, formed of living
stones, and built upon the rock. So is every confessor
of Christ. In order to settle what the Savior does
mean by the rock, we must consider the 18th and 19th
verses together, and keep in mind the entire figure. .
This figure portrays (1) =a Builder, Christ; (2) a
temple to be built, composed of lively stones, the
church; (3) a foundation for that temple, the rock;
(4) the gates of an unfriendly city or power which
shall seek its destruction, hades, the unseen abode
of the dead, the grave;
7
(5) a doorkeeper of the church, or spiritual temple,
with his keys, Peter.
Peters place in the figure is not that of the
foundation, but that of the key-holder or turnkey.
The only difficulty is in settling what the Lord
means by the rock. Since this rock is the foundation
of the church,
the central principle,
the fundamental idea,
we are aided to a correct decision by the teaching
of the Word elsewhere.
We learn from
1 Corinthians3: 11
For other foundation can no man lay than that is
laid, which is Jesus Christ.
Isaiah 28:16
This excludes Peter or any human platform. Christ
is often called a stone,
1 Peter 2:7
Unto you therefore which believe he is precious: but
unto them which be disobedient, the stone which the
builders disallowed, the same is made the head ofe
thedcornen
Ephesians 2: 20
And are built upon the foundation of the apostles
and prophets, Jesus Christ himself being the
chief corner stone;
1 Corinthians 10:2-4
2
And were all baptized unto Moses in the cloud and
in the sea;
3 And did all eat the same spiritual meat;
4 And did all drink the same spiritual drink; for
they drank of that spiritual Rock that followed them:
and that Rock was Christ.
Faith in Christ held in the heart and confessed with
the lips is the very foundationof the spiritual life
and of the church. This constituted the fundamental
difference in apostolic dayssbetween christians and
unbelievers, the church and the world. It does still.
8
It is the essence of the teaching of the New
Pewta
Testament that the platform or foundation of the
Christian society, the church, is the belief that
Jesus is the Christ the Son of the living God. It
is then Peter's grand confession, faith in the
Spiritual Rock, the faith that lays hold of Christ,
belief that he is the Anointed of God, the divine
Savior, that the Lord pronounces the rock upon which
he will found the church. That this view is correct
is shown by a correct understanding of the declaration
The gates of hades shall not prevail against it.
From the gates of a city always marched forth its
armies. The powers of hades are represented by its
gates. Hades is not hell (Gehenna), but the unseen
abode of the dead that holds the departed within its
gates. Just after these words the Lord talks of his
death, or entering hades. Six months later the
Sanhedrim sent 48 death for making the same confessior
Peter had just made. They expected to demonstrate
that the confession of his divinity which he had
made was false by sending him to hades, which they
supposed would hold him and prevail against the
confession, the Rock. He was sent there from the
cross, but the gates of hades did not prevail, for
they could not hold him, and the living Savior,
rising triumphant from the tomb, was the unanswerable
argument that his own and Peters confession was a
rock that could never be moved. His resurrection
demonstrated that he is the Rock. Hades did not
prevail.
v19
On the day of Pentecost the keys of the Kingdom of
Heaven were used. The binding and loosening was the
condition on which men could be saved. That which
was bound on earth was the gospel. The same power
that was given to Peter was given to all the apostles.
The word of God was preached. The condition of pardon
was given.
All who obeyed were saved. The saved were
added to the church.
Have you obeyed the gospel?
