1
LOVE IS THE GREATEST THING
Rom 13:10
Love worketh no ill to his neighbor: therefore love is the
fulfilling of the law.
Ths passage does not teach that if one loves his neighbor
he has license to break any of the commandments, but that
truly loving ones neighbor will postively restrain from any
sinful action against one's neighbor. Thisis profoundly
trueand means that the first and uppermost concern of God
is that human hearts should indeed overflow with love to
mankind, such love making it impossible that ###### specific
evil deeds in the social spectrum could be committed.
John 14:15
If ye love me, ye will keep my commandments.
Love outranks faith in the power to motivate men.
the
The great tragedy of modern Christianity is that of/elevation
of faith above love in the economy of salvation.
0
Heb 11:1
Now faith is the evidence of things hoped for, the evidence
of thingssnot seen.
Assurance - - - substance - - - and confidence appear to
be the same in meaning.
This is a not a formal definition of faith but rather a
plain statement with regard to its nature.
Things hoped for are all of those blessings, temperal
and eternal, that make up the inheritance of the faithful.
Resurrection from the dead and triumphal entry into the
everlasting habitations are surely included.
Things not seen - - include everything in the whole area
of faith, the creation of the universe, the incarnation
of Christ, the judgement of the world by the deluge,
the second advent of Christ, the final judgement, the
ultimate reception by every many of the destiny, good or
2
bad, that shall be a sign to him by God's enforcement of
universal judgement founded on justice and mercy. Unseen
things are very strongly emphasized in this chapter, and
repeated reference to them is made.
Love is one's willingness to sacrifice himself for the
happiness and wellbeing of others.
Jesus Christ sacrificed his life on a cruel cross for the
happiness and wellbeing of others.
Stephen sacrificed himself as an example to all Christians.
Abraham offered his only son whom he dearly loved on an
altar.
DV
Romans 5:7
For scarcely for a righteous man will one die: yet
peradventure for a good man some would even dare to die.
Absalom absalom
The word peradventure means perhaps or maybe since it is
far from certain that one could be counted on and then
under the rarest circumstances .. We find a few rare instances
of friends exposing themselved to death for friends.
LOVE OUTRANKS FAITH IN THE POWER TO MOTIVATE MEN.
Love included obedience which is not true of faith or hope.
Love is greater than faith or hope.
Love is the heart of the great commandment. To love God
and one's neighbor.
Mark 12:28-31
28 And one of the scribes came, and having hear them
reasoning together, and perceiving that he had answered
them weel, asked him, Which is the first commandment of
all?
29And Jesus answered him, The first of all the commandments
is, Hear, O Israel; The Lord our God is one Lord:
30 And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart,
and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind, and with all
thy strength: this is
the first commandment.
3
31 And the second is like, mamely this, Thou shalt love thy
neighbor as thyself. There is none other commandment greater
than these.
The questioner represented a group . The purpose of the
question was to try Jesus.
The great commandment is the one from which all othere are
derived and is therefore the root of all true worship and
obedience of God.
MIND
- - SOUL
-
- STRENGTH
It is impossible to exactly define each of the faculties
though it seems clear that some diferentation is intended.
THOU SHALT LOVE GOD
This is actually the goal of all God's dealings with the
human family. This purpose explains everything in the
Bible.
In the beginning when God placed Adam and Eve in the garden,
God could have created them so that it would have been
impossible for them to violate his will, just as animals
cannot sin. God, however, desired that his human creation
should love him and because love that is coerced or forced
is not actually love.
God made the principal of freedom of choice, the consequen-
ces of choice became inherent in human life. Since the
fall of Adam came the need for redemption.
God's purpose has never wavered. The great intention
continuing to be that man shall love their creator. If
men love God they will obey him.
O My son Absalom, my son, my son Absalom!
would God I
had died for thee, O Absalom, my son, my son!
4
bodT ,eldj viemsa , 9111 el bnobbe siis bnk IS
GOD'S SIGNATURE
Love is God's imprimature
enalaesup ent
Upon the human heart,
Queeu
esw noiseaup
A glorious investiture,
1. His image to impart.
eu
90
al bns bevi1sb
Love is chief of all the graces,
io sonelbodo
The royal prothonotary,
Assigning each and all their places
SOMIM
In God's economy.
It is the precious bridal song,
The prothalamion hymn
Of Jesus' Bride, the ransomed throng
Who have believed in him.
t elAT
Upon the entire human race,
To prove them born above,
The Father stooped his name to trace.
The signature is Love.
-James Burton Coffman
New York City, November 27, 1965
Wally
12 - 25 - 77 AM
loro to eso
odd. ponte
to list
eeogrug e bob
Svol 1.
l of ontunitnoo
bob evol nom
