. .
...
1
MEMORIALS
The Lord's Supper
1 Corinthians 11:23
For I have received of the Lord that which I also
delivered unto you, That the Lord Jesus the same
night in which he was betrayed took bread:
24 And when he had given thanks, he brake it, and
said, Take, eat: this is my body, which is broken for
you: this do in remembrance of me.
The first institution of the Lord's Supper is recorded
in Matthew 26:26
To every part of this ceremony, as here mentioned,
the utmost attention should be paid.
The Apostle John makes no mention of the institution.
This is generally accounted for on his knowledge of
what is written in Matthew, Mark, and Luke; and on
his conviction that no additional confirmation was
needed.
John Chapter 13:and 14 records the details before and
-
after the institution of the Lord's Supper.
..
THE PASSOVER INSTITUTED
Exod 12:15-20
Usually a different set of vessels were provided
for the preparation of the passover.
Paul said in:
1st Cor. 5:6-8
Your glorying is not good.
Know ye not that a
little leaven leaveneth the whole lump?
7 Purge out therefore the old leaven, that ye
may be a new lump, as ye are unleavened. For
even Christ our Passover is sacrificed for us:
8
Therefore let us keep the feast, not with old
leaven, neither with the leaven of malice and
tweakedness; but with the unleavened bread of
sincerity and truth.
Walling 9-10-78 a.m.
Bethlehem 5-24-87 AM
2
Jesus took bread.
Of what kind? Unleavened bread, because there was
no other kind to be had in all Judea at this time.
In every sign, or type, the thing signifying or
pointing out that which is beyond itself should
either have certain properties, or be accompanied
with certain circumstances, as expressive as
possible of the thing signified. Bread, simply
considered in itself, may be an emblem apt enough
of the body. of our Lord Jesus, which was given for
us; but the design of God was evidently that it
should not only point out this, but the disposition
required in those who should celebrate both the
antetype and the type; and this the apostle explains
to be sincerity and truth, the reverse of malice
and we kedness.
The use of common bread in the
sacrament of the Lord's Supper is highly improper.
Who can say "this is a matter of no importance"?
Who can say the wine is of no importance?
In this way, we may, a little at a time do away
with the whole ordinance of God.
Let those, therefore, who consider that man shall
live by every word which proceeds from the mouth
of God, and who are conscientiously solicitous that
each Divine institution be not only preserved, but
observed in all its original integrity, attend to
this circumstance.
24 -- And when he had given thanks,
Four accounts are given of the institution of the
Lord's Supper. Paul, in the lesson text and the
gospel of Luke as given in the text. Matthew and
Mark use the word 'blessed". We thus learn that
to bless and to give thanks mean the same.
It is
also expressed as offering thanks.
No blessing of the bread or the fruit of the vine
is intended. We give thanks to God who gave it.
Prayers are always to God in the name of Jesus
Christ.
There are those who pretend to transmute,
by a kind of spiritual incantation, the bread and
wine into the real body and blood of Jesus Christ.
This is most stupid and physically impossible.
3
The days of miracles have passed. If one could take
the fruit of the vine before us today and change it
to the blood of Christ, it would take a miracle of
great power.
24 -- he brake it,
The breaking of the bread may properly represent the
wounding, piercing, and breaking of his body upon
the cross. This was all necessary to the making a
full atonement for the sin of the world.
24 -- and said, take, eat:
this is my body
What did Jesus have in his hand? Did he have his
body in his hand? That which he called his body
was unleavened bread. What he meant was the
unleavened bread represented his body.
24 -- which is broken for you:
this do in remembrance
of me
In remembrance of me __ remember Christ on the cross
1 Corinthians 11:25
After the same manner also he took the cup, when he
had supped, saying, This cup is the new testament in
"my blood: this do ye, as oft as ye drink it, in
remembrance of me.
For as oft as ye eat this bread,
and drink this cup,
ye do show the Lord's death till he come.
27 Wherefore whosoever shall gat this bread, and
drink this cup of the Lord, unworthily, shall be
guilty of the body and blood of the Lord.
The Lord's supper faces in two directions, back to
calvary and forward to the second advent.
Many christians have erroneously concluded that their:
"unworthiness" forbade their observance of the supper;
but this is not true at all.
It is not the "worthiness"of the participant but the
"worthiness of his manner of partaking of it.
4
GUILTY OF THE BODY AND THE BLOOD OF JESUS
He in a spiritual sense, has become a crucifier of
the Lord himself.
