1
POSTAGE STAMPS
A Ragged Edge Is No Real Hindrance
Many have ragged edge
they are ugly, too tall,
too short, many handicaps, etc.
Stamps are ragged too, but they get there just the
same, if they do their best.
Philippians 4:13
13 .I can do all things through Christ which
strengtheneth me.
This is a summary of what Paul had just been writing
with regard to his having an inward sufficiency "in
the Lord" to cope with any of life's circumstances,
no matter how severe, and no matter how favorable.
Paul truly felt that it was impossible for life to
confront him with anything that he and the Lord could
not handle. Christ is the source of Paul's power.
The key words of this verse, as so often in Paul's
writings, are "In him. '
2Corinthians 8:1-5
1 Moreover, brethen, we do you to wit of the grace
of God bestowed on the churches of Macedonis;
2 How that in a great trial of affliction, the
abundance of their joy and their deep poverty
abounded unto the riches of their liberalty.
3 For to their power, I bear record, yea, and
beyond their power they were willing of themselves;
4. Praying us with much entreaty that we would
receive the gift, and take upon us the fellowship
of the ministering to the saints.
5 And this they did, not as we hoped, but first
gave their own selves to the Lord, and unto us by
the will of God.
In this chapter is found some instructions about
church giving.
Church offerings should be voluntary, proportionate,
systematic, and above reproach.
Christian paradoxes abound in these verses.
Walling 4-22-79
am
2
v,1,2
What an astounding thing it is that "two of the
loveliest flowers of Christian character, joy and
liberality, " should bloom in the Macedonian poverty
fields. Their poverty was extreme and unusual in an
age when poverty was almost universal.
Macedonia had been reduced to great poverty which
was the result of three civil wars. In addition
the churches had been made poor by persecution.
The collection that Paul had here in mind was for
the poor saints in Jerusalem, although the destination
of the funds in not stressed,
The joy and liberality demonstrated by the Macedonians
sprang from their consciousness of the forgiveness
of their sins and the pure happiness of restored
fellowship with God. Their liberality was a
spontaineous expression of that joy.
v3-5
Their giving was above what Paul had expected, and
even beyond what their extreme poverty indicated as
Paul had urged some restraint in their giving, in
possible.
view of their dire poverty.
The fellowship refers to their participation in the
collection, and the ministering to the service which
the money would render to the poor Christians in
Je
Jerusalem.
They first gave themselves to God
All Christian graces are derived from the first
decision to give oneself to God.
Ticket
2 Januar 2 : 1 - 15
