1
PROBLEMS IN THE CORINTHIAN CHURCH
New Testament congregations had their problems.
Corinthian letter reads somewhat like our papers
today, except a proper solution was then offered.
They had our problems in principle.
Corinth had its baxkground problems. Many problems
come in at the back door as individuals enter the
church. They bring their false ideas, customs, etc.
The rich want all to act like rich folk; the poor,
like the poor; business men, . . etc.
LET US STUDY SOME OF THEIR PROBLEMS AND THEREBY
LEARN HOW TO SETTLE OURS
The Problem of Division
I Corinthians 10:10-13
10 Neither murmur ye, as some of them also murmured,
and were destroyed of the destroyer.
11 Now all these things happened unto them for
ensamples: and they are written for our admonition,
upon whom the ends of the world are come.
12 Wherefore let him that thinketh he standeth
take heedlest he fall.
13 There hath no temptation taken you but such
as is common to man: but God is faithful, who will
not suffer you to be tempted above that ye are able;
but will with the temptation also make a way to
escape, that ye may be able to bear it.
Bethlehem 11-27-88 AM
Walling 3-9-80 pm
Nichols p 38
2
THE GRAND ANALOGY OF ISRAEL
Egypt is a type of sin and bondage.
God's sending Moses to deliver them is a type of
God's sending Christ to deliver us from the
degrading slavery of sin.
Pharaoh is a type of the devil.
The compromises he offered Moses are like the c
compromises Satan still suggests to Christians.
Moses is the most eloquent type of Christ in all
the Bible.
(CH pp.67-69)
Israels crossing the Red Sea is typical of Christian
baptism.
Their spiritual food is typical of the Lord's
SuppSupper.
Israel's entering the wilderness is typical of
the Christian's entering the church.
The wilderness is a type of the church.
That Israel sinned is typical of the sins and
reberebellians of Christians.
The majority of them failed to enter Canaan; and
this is typical of "the many" Christians who
will not be saved eternally.
Canaan is a type of heaven. 3-14-80 P.m
Some of Israel entering Canaan is typical of the
final victory of Christians who shall enter
into the joy of the Lord.
That some of them "fell" is typical of Christians
who fall away and are lost.
God's providental care of Israel in the wilderness
is typical of his providental care of
Christians till "the end of the world. "
The fact of Israel's being "baptized" and having
the "Lord's Supper"
(in the analogy) did not
maxmake immune to sin and death, as Paul was
teaching here; and the same is true of
Christians now.
Canaan was entered when Israel crossed Jordan,
making Jordan a type of death, beyond which
Christians enter heaven.
Read 1 Corinthians 10:1-11
3
The dangers which beset Israel in the wilderness
are typical of the dangers confronting
Christians during their probation.
They were tempted to commit fornication, even as
the Corinthians were being tempted, and by
the same means, through the licentious
celebrations of idol worship.
