1
THE LIGHT OF THE WORLD
Matthew 5:14-16
The visitor to Carlsbad Caverns is allowed to sit
for a few moments in total darknessand silence.
The Coal Miner is sometimes required to refill his
carbide lamp in total darkness.
The possum hunter may also be required to refill in
total darkness.
In this brief time he can get some idea of the world
without light and of the absolute necessity of light
to life on this globe.
Jesus knowing this truth, said his people were the
light of the world, that they ought to realize it
and act as such.
When we visit our eye doctor, he has apowerful
light he looks deep into the back part of the eye.
One of the common forms of light is the one which
dispels darkness, , enabling us to see our way.
Light enables us to examine and to see things as they
really are.
Light supports life. Plants utilize light and minerals
to make usable good. Upon this process plants animals
and men depend for food, hence for life.
Light, we are told by scientists, is either directly
or indirectly the source of all power on earth
whether it be water power, electricity, steam coal
or what have you.
God's people are often called light
Bethlehem 3-20-88
AM
Bethlehem 8-20-00 AM
Walling 4-15-79 pm
2
THE TEXT
Matthew 5:14-16
14 Ye are the light of the world, A city that is set
on a hill cannot be hid.
15 Neither do men light a candle, and put it under
a bushel, but on a candlestick; and it giveth light
unto all that are in the ho se.
16 Let your light so shine before men, that they may
see your good works, and glorify your Father which
is in heaven.
v14
This is further testimony to the indispensible nature
of God's children. the world would be in total
darkness without them. Furthermore, there is no reasor
to suppose that God would allow a wicked world to g
stand if it were not for the faithful remnant
remaining in it and remaining faithful to God. The
light Christians give forth to others is derived
from Christ. Just as light, energy, and power are
derived from the solar system , the sun, all moral
and spiritual light are derived from our Lord Jesus
Christ.
A city cannot be hid that is set on a hill. Just so,
the influence of the church cannot be ignored.
When Gods light truly shines; the church is fulfilling
its mission
v15-16
This passage sets forth instructions regarding the
Christians influence, or light , in the world.
Christ forbade hiding it under a bushel, that is
permitting business to obscure one's influence for
the truth.
He forbade hiding it under a vessel. Permitting cares
duties and obligations of life to take precedence
over faith.
He forbade laziness, idleness or licentiousness.
It should be placed upon the stand identified in
Revelation 1:20 as the churches.
3
Good works
1 Peter 2:12
12 Having your conversation honest among the Gentiles
THAT, WHEREAS THEY SPEAK AGAINST YOU AS EVIL DOERS,
they may by your good works, which they shall behold,
glorify God in the day of visitation.
They were accused of cannibalism
Jesus said "This is my body
this is my blood".
They were accused of killing and eating a child at
their feasts.
They were accused of immoality and incest.
They were accused of turning slaves against their
masters
They were accused of "Hatred of mankind".
They were accused of disloyalty to Caesar, due to
their refusal to worship the emperor.
Here is our challenge and our inspiration. It is by
the loveliness of our daily life and conduct that
we must commend Christianity to those who do not
believe.
John 15:8
8 Herein is my Father glorified, that ye bear much
fruit; so shall ye be my disciples.
Holy Spirit
Fruit of the Spirit
Bear Fruit
John 8:12 Then spake Jesus again unto them, saying,
I am the light of the world: he that followeth me
shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light
of life.
As the sun is the source of all light, power and
energy on earth, Jesus the Sun of righteousness is
the spiritual source of all spiritual lifgt, power
and energy.
