Parabled matt 17
1
THE CHURCH AND THE KINGDOM
Matt. 16; 13 -- 19
A.
An axiom in mathmatics states that things equal
to thea same things are equal to each other.
: b
3 +1=4 2+2=4 3+1*2*2
B. This principal if properly applied clear up up
much of the misunderstanding in the religeous world.
The Kingdom of Christ and the Church of Christ are the same.
Matt. 16 18 - 19
Discuss Build Church and keys to a different institution
DIFFERENT NAMES USED IN PROPHECY
Mountain of Gods House
A2
ISIAH 2: 2-3
And it shall come to pass in the last days,
that the
mountain of the Lords house shall be established in the
top of the mountains, and shall be exaulted above the
hills; and all nations shall flow unto it.
3. And many people shall go and say, come ye, and let us
go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the
God of Jacob; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will
walk in his ways paths: for out of Zion shall go forth the
law, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem.
MICAH 4:1
But in the last days it shall come to pass, that the
mountain of the house of the Lord shall be established
in the top of the mountains, and it shall be exalted
above the hills; and people shall flow unto it.
2. Kingdom of God - unshakable mountain
DANIEL 2:35, 44, 45
nebuchadnezzar
35 - Then was the iron, the clay, the brass, the silver,
and the gold, broken to pieces together, and became
2
like the chaff of the summer threshingfloors; and the
wind carried them away, that no place was found for
them: and the stone that smote the image became a
great mountain, and filled the whole earth.
44 - And in the days of these kings shall the God of
heaven set up a kingdom, which shall never be destroyed:
and the kingdom shall not be left to other people, but
it shall break in pieces and consume all these kingdoms,
and it shall stand forever.
45 - Forasmuch as thou sawest that the stone was cut out
of the mountain without hands, and that it brake in
pieces the iron, the brass, the clay, the silver, and the
gold; the great God hath made known to the king what
shall come to pass hereafter: and the dream is certain,
and the interpretation thereof sure.
3. The church is God's house.
I Timothy 3: 15 - But if I tarry long, that thou mayest
know how thou oughtest to behave thyself in the house of
God, which is the church of the living God, the pillar
and ground of the truth.
4.
Paul uses the term Mountain of the Lord, the kingdom
and the church interchangeably in Hebrews 12:18-27. 2.
5. If the mountain house of God is the church, then the
kingdom and the church must be the same.
C. In the Parables.
1. Word of God - the seed of the kingdom
LUKE 8:11 - Now the parable is this: The seed is the
word of God.
a. Yet, the church is to make known the word.
EPHESIANS 3:10, 11 - To the intent that now unto
the principalities and powers in heavenly places
might be known by the church the manifold wisdom
of God.
11 - According to the eternal purpose which he
purposed in Christ Jesus our Lord.
Walling 9 - 4 -77 AM
b. Those who obey the word become members of the
church.
EPHESIANS 5:25,26 - Husbands, love your wives, even
as Christ also loved the church, and gaver himself
for it;
26 - That he might sanctifyand cleanse it with the
washing of water by the word.
mark
2. The Judgement scenes of Matthew 25 all protray servants
in the kingdom of Christ in judgement before him as virgins,
talent-holders or sheep and goats.
a. Peter affirms that judgement must begin at the
house of God which we have already seen is the church.
I PETER 4:17, 18; I TIMOTHY 3:15
I PETER 4:17 - For the time is come that judgement
must begin at the house of God: and if it first
begin at us, what shall the end be of them that
obey not the gospel of God?
-
18 - And if the righteous scarcely be saved, where
shall the ungodly and the sinner appear?
I TIMOTHY 3:15 - But if I tarry long, that thou mayest
know how thou oughest to behave thyself in the house
of God, which is the church of the living God, the
pillar and ground of the truth.
D. The Lord's Table.
1. Set in the kingdom.
LUKE 22:29,30 - And I appoint unto you a kingdom, as
my Father has appointed unto me;
30 - That ye may eat and drink at my table in my
kingdom, and sit on thrones judging the twelve tribes
of Israel.
2
Church at Corinth partook of this table.
I CORINTHINIANS 10:21 - Ye cannot drink the cup of the
Lord, and the cup of devils: ye cannot be partakers of
the Lord's table, and of the table of devils.
I CORINTHINIANS 11:23,29 - For I have received of the
Lord that which also I delivered unto you, That the
Lord Jesus the same night in which he was betrayed
took bread,
I CORINTHIANS 11: 29 - For he that eateth and drinketh
upworthily, eateth and drinketh damnation to himself,
not discerning the Lord's body.
E. Paul's work.
1. To turn souls from darkness to light.
ACTS 26:18 - To open their eyes, and to turn them from
darkness to light, and from the power of Satan unto
God, that they may. receive forgiveness of sins, and
inheritance among them which are sanctified by faith
that is in me. J
2. Those so turned were in the kingdom.
COLOSSIANS 1: 13, 14 - Who hath delivered us from the
power of darkness, and hath translated us into the
kingdom of his dear Son:
14 - In whom we have redemption through his blood,
even the forgiveness of sins.
3. At same time Paul was minister of the church.
COLOSSIANS 1 24, 25 - Who how rejoice in my sufferings
for you, and fill up that which is behind of the
afflictions of Christ in my flesh for his body's sake,
which is the church;
25 - Whereof I am made a minister, according to the
dispensation of God which is given to me for you, to
fulfill the word of God.
F. The New Birth.
1.
Those born again were in the kingdom.
JOHN 3:3,5 - Jesus answered and said unto him, Verily,
verily, I. say unto thee, Except a man be born again, he
cannot see the kingdom of God.
5 - Jesus answered, Verily, Verily, I say unto thee,
Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he
cannot enter in to the kingdom of God.
3
2. Yet, the Corinthians being born again, were members
of the church.
XXXXXXXXNX I CORINTHIANS 4:15 - For though ye have
ten thousand instructers in Christ, yet have ye not
many fathers: for in Christ Jesus I have begotten
you through the gospel.
I CORINTHIANS 1:1,2 - Paul, called to be an apostle
of Jesus Christ through the will of God, and
Sosthenes our brother,
2 - Unto the church of God which is at Corinth, to
them that are sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be
saints, with all that in every place call upon the
name of Jesus Christ our Lord, both their's and our's:
G. The Redeemed.
1. At the last the kingdom will be delivered up to God
by Christ.
I CORINTHINIANS 15:24, 25 - Then cometh the end, when
he shall have delievered up the kingdom to God, even
the Father; when he shall have put down all rule and
all authority and power.
25 - For he must reign, till he hath put all enemies
under his feet.
2. Yet, John says none will be permitted in heaven whose
names are not in the Lamb's Book.
REVELATION 21:27 - And there shall in no wise enter
into it any thing that defileth, neither whatsoever work-
eth abomination, or maketh a lie: but they which are
written in the Lamb's book of life.
3
Those whose names are in the heavenly roll book are
members of the church.
HEBREWS 12:23 - To the general assembly and church of
the firstborn, which are written in heaven, and to
God the Judge of all, and to the spirits of just men
made perfect.
III. CONCLUSION.
The church and kingdom of Christ are the same. Since
they are to be those allowed in heaven, you need to
obey the Lord now and be among that number.
odd noqu Iiso sosig yiove al 360
bob os
HATHINTMIRCO I
obroved Ilede ed
Ons sius IIs nwo
eun en 101 - C
on evse not . Joy
Jon 975 20men
mond bok - TS: IS MOITAJAVAR
ind yha fi ogni
azB Hainw vent tud :otl's das em to ,moltenimods ite-
Walking 9 - 11- 77 AM
