(1 )
THE CHURCH
Acts 1:8
But ye shall receive power, after that the Holy Ghost
is come upon you: and ye shall be witnesses unto me
both in Jerusalem, and in all Judea, and in Samaria,
and unto the uttermost part of the earth.
Acts 2:1-4
And when the day of Pentecost was fully come, they
were all with one accord in one place.
2 And suddenly there came a sound from heaven as a
rushing mighty wind, and it filled all the house
where they were sitting.
3 and there appeared unto them cloven tongues like
as of fire, and it sat upon each of them.
4 and they were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and
began to speak with other tongues, as the Spirit gave
them utterance.
John 16:13
Howbeit when he, the Spirit of truth, is come, he will
guide you into all truth: for he shall not speak of
himself; but whatsoever he shall hear, that shall he
speak: and he will show you things to come.
Hebrews 2: 4
God also bearing them witness, both with signs and
wonders, and with divers miracles, and gifts of the
Holy Ghost, according to his own will?
Page 3
if
Genesis 1:2
And the earth was without form, and void; and darkness
was upon the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God
moved upon the face of the waters.
Job 26:13
By his Spirit he hath garnished the heavens; his hand
hath formed the crooked serpent.
Gen 41:16
6
2
And Joseph answered Pharaoh, saying, It is not in me:
God shall give Pharaoh an answer of peace.
.38
And Pharaoh said unto his servants, Can we find such
a one as this is, A man in whom the Spirit of God is?
Prsa 5:47
But let all those that put their trust in thee rejoice
let them ever shout for joy, because thou defendest
them: let them also that love thy name be joyful in
thee.
7
Pśa 51:11
Cast me not away from thy presence; and take not thy
Holy Spirit from me.
Isaiah 61:1 The Spirit of the Lord is upon me;
because the Lord hath anointed me to preach good
tidings unto themeek; he hath sent me to bind up the
broken-hearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives,
and the opening of the prison to them thatvare bound;
2 Peter 1:21
For the prophecy came not in old time by the will of
man: but holy men of God spake as they were moved by
the Holy Ghost.
10
Num 11 16-17
16 And the Lord said unto Moses, Gather unto me
seventy men of the elders of Israel, whom thou knowest
to be the elders of the people, and officers over them
and bring them unto the tabernacle of the congregation
that they may stand there with thee.
17 And I will come down and talk with thee there: and
I will take of the spirit which is upon thee, and will
put it upon them; and they shall bear the burden of
the people with thee, that thou bear it not thyself
alone.
25 And the Lord came down in a cloud, and spake unto
him, and took of the spirit that was upon him, and
gave it unto the seventy elders: and it came to pass,
that, when the spirit rested upon them, they prophesie
and did not cease.
26 But there remained two of the men in the camp, the
name of the one was Eldad, and the name of the other
Medad: and the spirit rested upon them; and they were
of them that were written, but went not out unto the
tabernacle: and they prophesied in the camp.
3
27 And there ran a young man, and told Moses, and said
Eldad and Medad do prophesy in the camp.
28 And Jpshus the son of Nun, the servant of Moses,
one of the young men, answered and said, My Lord Moses
forbid them.
29 And Moses said unto him, Enviest thou for my sake?
would God that all the Lord's people were prophets
and that the Lord would put his Spirit upon them.
11
1 Samuel 10:10
And when they came thither to the hill, behold, a
company of prophets met him; and the Spirit of God
came upon him, and he prophesied among them.
16:13
Then Samuel took the horn of oil, and anointed him in
the midst of his brethen: and the Spirit of the Lord
came upon David from that day forward. So Samuel
rose up, and went to Rama.
12
Judges 3:10
And the Spirit of the Lord came upon him, and he
judged Israel, and went out to war: and the Lord d
delivered Chu'shan-rish'a-tha'im king of
Mes'o-po-ta'mi-a into his hand; and his hand
prevailed against Chu'shan-rish'a-tha'im.
13:24-25
24 And the woman bare a son, and called his name
Samson :
and the child grew, and the Lord blessed him.
25 And the Spirit of the Lord began to move him at
times in the camp of Dan between Zo'rah and Esh'ta-ol.
13
Exodus 31 : 1-5
1
And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying,
2 See, I have called by name Be-zal'e-el the son
of U'ri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah:
3 And I have filled him with the Spirit of God, in
wisdom, and in understanding, and in knowledge, and
in all manner of workmanship,
4 To devise cunning works, to work in gold, and in
silver, and in brass,
5 And in cutting of stones, to set them, and in
carving of timber, to work in all manner of
workmanship.
35: 30-35
30 And Moses said unto the children of Israel, See,
the Lord hath called by name Be-zal'e-el the son of
U'ri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah;
31
And he hath filled him with the Spirit of God, in
31 13
wisdom, in understanding, and in knowledge, and in
all manner of workmanship;
32 And to devise curious works, to work in gold, and
in silver, and in brass,
33 And in the cutting of stones, to set them, and
in carving of wood, to make any manner of cunning
work.
34 And he hath put in his heart that he may teach,
both he, and A-ho'li-ab, the son of A-his'a-mach, of
the tribe of Dan.
35 Them hath he filled with wisdom of heart, to
work all manner of work, of the engraver, and of
the cunning workman, and of the embroiderer, in blue,
and in purple, in scarlet, and in fine linen, and of
the weaver, even of them that do any work, and of
those that devise cunning work.
cf 1 Kings 18:12
1A
And it shall come to pass, as soon as I am gone from
thee, that the Spirit of the Lord shall carry thee
whither I know not; and so when I come and tell Ahab
and he cannot find thee, he shall slay me: but I thy
servant fear the Lord from my youth.
1b
Ezek 3:12
Then the Spirit took me up and I heard behind me a
voice of a great rushing, saying, Blessed be the
glory of the Lord from his place.
14
Matt 1:20
But while he thought on these things, behold, the
angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying,
Joseph, thou son of David, fear not to take unto
thee Mary thy wife: for that which is conceived in
her is of the Holy Ghost.
17
Mark 1:10
And straightway coming up out of the water he sawthe
the heavens opened, and the Spirit li ke a dove
descending upon him!'
18 Joel 2:28
And it shall come to pass outward, that Iwill pour
out my Spirit upon all flesh; and your sons and
your daughters shall prophecy, your old men shall
dream dreams your young men shall see visions:
