THE LORD'S SUPPER
It is now time for all who plan to eat
the Lord's Supper to have a self examination.
1 Corinthians 11: 28
But let a man examine himself, and so let
him eat of that bread and drink of that cup.
What is this examination For? To see if
there is a sin in our life. CERTAINLY NOT.
It is to discern the body! It must not be
eaten as common food, without thought of
what it represents. We must think of the
body and blood of our Lord.
John 6:53
53 Then Jesus said unto them, Verily,
verily, I say unto you, Except ye eat the
flesh of the Son of Man, and drink his
blood, ye have no life in you.
What a wonderful thing it is to be a
Christian and eat the Lord's Supper.
How happy we should be that we have this
privelege!
Bethlehem 8-20-89
AM
THE LORD'S SUPPER
Let us now prepare ourselves to take the
LORD'S SUPPER. This is the greatest
memorial known to man.
What a memorial this is!
No tower of stone or Marble palace,
no
tablet or inscription, no name conferred on
cities or places, no granite obelisk or
shining monument could ever have a fraction
of the effectiveness of this world wide
memorial of the Lord's Supper. It has been
observed by Christians for so many Lord's
days that we can hardly comprehend it all.
Surely this memorial will be observed on
successive sundays till our Lord comes again.
This ordinance, more than any other, reveale
who is saved and who is not saved. Here
is the spiritual devise of the Lord himsels
which seperates the wheat from the chaff.
He that eateth my flesh and drinketh my
blood hath eternal life and I will raise him up
at the last day.
John 6:54
THE LORS'S SUPPER
As we partake of this Supper in memory
of our Savior, we remember the night of
his betrayal, agony, blood and tears, and
the awful scenes of the crucification.
Romans 6:3 Know ye not, that so many of
us as were baptized into Jesus Christ were
baptized into his death?
Those who have obeyed this command find in
this solemn ceremony a recurring participipation
in Christ's death. Upon that fixed interval
recurring every Lord's Day the child of
God turns his thoughts and meditations back
to the cross, in his heart living with
the
Savior those awful events of his Passion,
reviewing over and over again the scenes
and circumstances which marked the Lord's
supreme act of atonement for the sins of
the whole world. Christ died for our sins;
and it is that historical event which anchors
and perpetuates the Lord's Supper; and so
the fact of Christ's death and resurrection
is demonstrated and proved throughout all
times and places by this sacred rite.
4
Contributions
11 Corinthians 9:6-7 But this I say, shall
reap also sparingly; and he which soweth
bountifully shall reap also bountifully.
according
7 Every man/as he purposeth in his heart,
so let him give; not grudingly, or of necessity:
For God loveth a cheerful giver.
