1
THE CHURCH IN PHILADELPHIA
Rev. 3:7-13
Philadelphia, a walled city of Lydia, was twenty-five miles
southeast of Sardis, on the Cogamus River, a tributary of the
Hermus. It was built by Atallus Philadelphus, king of
Pergamos, a little more than a century before the birth of
Christ. The fertility of the soil in this region has kept it
peopled through the changes of the centyries. Philadelphia,
with ruins of ancient walls, is today a little city of some
10,000 souls. Its modern name is Allah Shehr, "City of God."
The meaning of Philadelphia is "brotherly love", and the
church in Philadelphia, like the church in Smprna, received
commendation and no censure. The Christians in this city were
keepers of God's word; and, because they were keepers of the
word, the Lord promised to keep them from coming trials and
bless them with eternal rewards. The letter is a beautiful
Ci
one and sets in motion thoughts most sublime.
The city still exists as a turkish town under the name Allah
Shehr,
'City fo God' that is the High Town. The country
viewed from the the hills is extremely magnificient --
gardens and vinyards lying at the back and one of the most
beautiful plains of Asia.
The town contains about 3000 house
of which about 250 are Greek, the rest Turks. Six minarets
are seen in the town.
The streets are narrow and filthy.
v7
And to the angel of the church in Philadelphia write; these
things saith he that is holy, he that is true, he that hath
the key of David, he that openeth, and no man shutteth; and
shutteth and no man openeth;
Philadelphia was its ancient name on account of the love and
kindness which the citizens had shown each other. This was
an excellent spirit and this was indeed as excellent church.
this letter was signed by the Lord Jesus himself. He that is
holy and he that is true. He that hath the key of David. As
David had the key to his palace so in amuch greater sense
Christ has the key to our hearts, through the preaching of the
gospel, to the church in admitting those who should be admitte:
d and shutting out or keeping out those not fit for the kingdd
om. He performs these acts by absolute sovernty.
Bethlehem 5-8
and 5-15 A M 88
Walling 3-12-78
first half
two lessons
Walling 3-19-78
last half
2
v8
I know thy works :
Aconstant reminder that God knows our hearts and all about us.
v8
behold, I have set before thee an open door, and no man can
shut it:
This door referred to the church in Philadelphia. They had
kept it open. No man could close. No man had the authority.
v8
for thou hast a little strength, and hast kept my word, and
hast not denied my name.
They are commended for their strength. It was little but they
needed encouragement.
By the provess of study we are to fill our hearts with the
word; the word in the heart will keep us from sin and guide
us in the performance of every worthy work. Satan tries to
take away
v8
and didst not deny my name
This is another way of saying, "Thou hast not been ashamed
of my gospel." Though the Jews wielded a powerful influence
against the Lords people, they were steadfast in their faith.
Members of the church have been known to go to some other
religeous group to worship because the building owned by the
church was not the most elaborate one in town.
The Apostle paul said, "I am not ashamed of the gospel .!
v9
Behold I will make them of the synagogue of Satan, which say
they are Jews, and are not, but do lie;
Who are the Jews who are referred to in the bible as the true
Jews. ?
Rom. 2:28-29 Paul answers this question.
For he is not a Jew, which is one outwardly; neither is that
circumcision, which is outward in the flesh:
3
v29
But he is a Jew, which is one inwardly; and circumcision is
1
is that of the heart, in the spirit, and not in the letter;
whose praise is not of men, but of God.
These two questions Jews and circumcision are clearly
answered.
One who has obeyed the gospel is a Jew. The ancestery does not
have to be traced back to Abraham.
To be circumcised today one must put sin out of his life.
v9behold, I will make them to come and worship before thy
feet, and to know that I have loved thee.
The gospel is Gods power to save. Many who have rejected
Christ will be made to see where they are wrong.
The gospel of Christ when p eached in its simplicity will
change a lion into a lamb.
v10
Because thou hast kept the word of my patience, I also will
keep thee from the hour of temptation,
This has been called the, "Divine lex talionsis," or law of
retaliation.
Matt. 6:14
For if ye forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father
will also forgive you:
Forgive
Judge not
Condemn not
release
Keep Gods word
v10
vsan 901
which shall come upon all the world, to try them that dwell
upon the earth.
Those who keep the word of God have the promise of being kept
by the word.
v11
Behold I come quickly:
To terminate your trials.
to receive you.
vengence on foes
v11
hold fast that which thou hast
Strength
zeal
hope
4
v11
that no man take thy crown
Not for himself but to rob you of it. Hold what you have.
Allow no temptation to entice you.
v12
Him that overcometh, will I make a pillar in the temple of
my God,
The overcoming is a daily battle against the temptation to
sin. He who overcomes will not become a literal stone but he
will be as one that cannot be persauded to sin.
v12
and he shall go no more out:
The people were forced to flee Philadelphia on occasion becaus
of the threat of earthquakes. The inhabitants of Heaven will
have no such threat. The door which is opened for the
Christians deliverance, will be closed for his security.
Who would not yearn for the City where no friends ever depart
and no enemies ever enter ??
v12
teno
and I will write upon him the name of my God, and the name of
the city of my God, which is new Jerusalem, which cometh down
out of Heavenfrom my God: and I will write upon him my new
name .
The honor is so great -- three names are written upon him --
The name of God ----- The heavenly City --- Christs Heavenly name
v13He that hath an ear, let him hear what the spiait saith to
unto the Churches.
Those who will not listen are like the person who has no ears.
He receives no light -- makes no correction -- receives no
encouragement -- there is no crown awaiting him -- there is no
home in heaven.
bion
01
