1
WHY WE BELIEVE
in the
CHURCH
We believe in the church in the sense that we believe
in:
Prayer
Bethlehem 10-11-87
PM
Giving
Godly Life
We believe what the Bible teaches about the church
and are ready to give a reason.
I Peter 3:15
But sanctify the Lord God in your hearts: and be
ready always to give an answer to every man that
asketh you a reason for the hope that is in you,
with meekness and fear:
The outline for this lesson was prepared by Gus
Nichols, one of our outstanding preachers, in his
day. He studied the Bible about five hours a day
and prepared ten thousand sermon outlines.
The passage which is the foundation for our lesson
today was read in my hearing November 16 , 1941,
by Iverson King Ledford at the old DeRossett
meeting house. This passage would not have stayed
with me so long except for the events which
followed. Ike, as we called him, died two days
later. When the Saints assembled, the following
first day of the week, our brother in Christ was
not among us. His body lay among his kinsmen in
the Old Bon Air city of the dead.
Beloved Henry J Chittick Sr. , Mr Harry, or Dad
Chittick, as he was affectionately known: rose to
speak of the sadness that had come over us. The
sadness of his going was great, but the joy of
being a Christian was greater. Let each one of us
spend the last day of our life on this earth
assembledwith the Saints on the first day of the week.
Walling 3-9-80 am
Nichols p 60
2
But sanctify the Lord God in your hearts:
In your hearts or in your soul, regard the Lord
God as holy, and act toward him with that
confidence which a proper respect for one so
great and so holy demands. In the midst of dangers
be not intiminated; dread not what man can do,
but display clearly proper reliance on a holy God,
and flee to him with the confidence which is due
to one so glorious. This contains a more general
direction, applicable to Christians at all times.
It is in our hearts we are to esteem God as a
holy being, and always to act toward him as such.
In order to keep our mind calm in times of weakness,
sanctify the Lord in our hearts; regard him as
your holy God and Savior; make him your refuge.
This will allay us from all our fears, and secure
us from all that we dread.
What is meant by our sanctifying the Lord?
It cannot mean to make him holy, for he is
perfectly holy, whatever may be our estimate of
him; and our views of him evidently can make no
change in his character. We must regard him as
holy in our estimate of him, or in the feelings
we have toward him.
We should desire that he may be regarded by others
as holy, in accordance with the petition in the
Lord's prayer,
Matthew 6:9
9 Hallowed be thy name. .. that is, let thy name
be esteemed to be holy everywhere; a feeling
which is opposed to the worldly affection afforded
him. When we esteem a friend, we desire that all
due respect be shown him by others; we wish that
all who know him have the same views that we have;
we are sensitive to his honor, just in proportion
as we love him.
To act toward him as one who is holy;
To obey his laws
To agree to all his requirements as just and good.
Many admit the doctrine that God is holy in their
creeds, who never suffer the sentiment to find
its way to the heart.
3
In our prayers, and in our hymns, we, of course,
"ascribe holiness to our Maker. " But how much of
this is the mere language of form! How little does
the heart accompany it. And even in the most
solemn and sublime ascriptions of praise, how often
are the feelings of the heart entirely at variance
with what is expressed by the lips.
And be ready always. ..
Here
3-9 -20 AM
All Christians, at all times, should have the full
grasp of the basis for accepting the holy religeon
they have accepted, as well as possessing a thorough
knowledge of the great doctrine of the New Testament;
for there will be countless times when such
knowledge can be used to convert others to Christ.
To give an answer. ..
In order that we may show others our religeon isd
true.
Paul referred to the answer he was ready to give
in
Acts 22:1
1 Men, brethen, and fathers, hear ye my defence
which I make now unto you.
To every man that asketh you. ...
Any one may ask another on what grounds he holds
his religeon as true. We should be ready to state
those grounds in the best possible manner. This
is honoring the Master whom we serve.
A reason of the hope that is within you,
That is, you are to state on what ground you
cherish that hope. This refers to the whole ground
of our hope.
Romans 8:24
24 For we are saved by hope: but hope that is
seen is not hope : for what a man seeth, why doth
he yet hope for?
4
With meekness. ..
Who are the meek?
The basic element of meekness is equilibrium, as
derived from its root meaning The full and
CO.
complete possession of all the faculties of one's
being, an inner mastery.
It has been illustrated as the captain at the helm
of his ship in the midst of the storm, who, in
full control of the vessel, guides the ship steadily
through the storm.
It is said of Moses in
Numbers 12:3
3 Now the man Moses was very meek, above all the
men which were upon the face of the earth.
Yet he was among all men the most courageous, and
with Joshua his colleague and commander-in-chief,
the greatest fighter in Israel.
And fear. ..
There should be fear that the answers given might
not be correct.
The failure of many to really know the truth about
their own religeous views is widespread.
Every teacher should concern himself to know the
right answers, to avoid becoming himself a teacher
of falsehood.
Fear is a proper motive for all who presme to t
teach the word of the Lord.
to here 3- 14 - 80
nichole A 40
