WEDDING CEREMONY
We are assembled here in the presence of God to
join
SHELIA WALLACE AND BRUCE WRITTENBERRY
in the bonds of holy wedlock and to send them
forth with our prayers and Christian greetings.
Matthew 19:4
And he answered and said, Have ye not read, that
he who made them from the beginning made them
male and female. And said,
5 For this cause shall a man leave his father and
mother, and shall cleave to his wife; and the two
shall become one flesh?
6 So that they are no more two, but one flesh.
What therefore God hath joined together, let not
man put asunder.
Jesus honored marrige by performing His first
miracle at a wedding in Cana of Galilee.
The first marriage for all the sons and daughters
of Adam and Eve.
What marriage was to Adam and Eve in the beginning
will be to you, if you have it in your hearts to
beautify and sweeten it by the daily prae of the
golden Rule, and by taking with you into wedlock
a large measure of kindness, patience, and for
forbearance, along with a forgiving spirit, all
of which I charge it upon you before God to remember
and perform.
Who gives this bride in marriage?
In token of your decision to choose each other
to be companions through life, you will now please
join hands.
May I urge it upon you to make the word of God a
lamp unto your feet along life's pathway.
Do you agree to take each other as husband and wife
to live together as God has commanded ?? And do you
solemnly promise before God and these witnesses
that you will love, honor and cherish each other
in sickness and adversity? And that you will
forsake all others and keep yourselves to each
other only and that you will be faithful and true
to each other, and to your marriage vows, as long
as you both shall live upon the earth?
Bruce?
Shelia?
(To Bruce) Do you have a token which you wish
to give the brid, and with which to seal your
marriage vows?
This is a lovely and beautiful ring, an emblem
of the pure and enduring love which you are to
cherish for each other until death do you part.
Let Bruce repeat after me/the f8118wing:
With this ring
I thee do wed-
- and
with all my worldly goods
-and my heart's
most faithful affections ------- I thee endow, and
I pledge to thee my loyalty ----- and faithfulness --
until death do us part.
same for Shelia
For as much as you have covenated together in the
bonds of holy wedlock and have sealed your marriage
vows by the giving and receiving of these rings
before God and these witnesses, I therefore as a
minister of the gospel, pronounce you
Husband and Wife
Mr and Mrs BRUCE WRITTENBERRY
What God hath joined together, let not man put
asunder.
PRAYER
Ladies and gentlemen allow me to present to you
Mr and Mrs Bruce Writtenberry
