15 Having abolished in his flesh the enmity, even
the law of commandments contained in ordinances;
for to make in himself of twain one new man, So
making peace
MIA: 28-89-4 medis
2
And many of them that sleep in the dust of the earth
shall awake, some to everlasting life, and some to
shame and everlasting contempt.
3 And they that be wise shall shine as the brightness
of the firmament: and they that turn many to
righteousness, as the stars forever and forever.
A wife winning her husband.
I Peter 3:1-4
Likewise, ye wives, be in subjection to your own
husbands; that, if any obey not the word, they also
may without the word be won by the conversation of
the wives;
2 While they behold your chaste conversation coupled
with fear.
3 Whose adorning, let it not be that outward
adorning of plaiting the hair, and of wearing of gold,
or puttinp on of apparel;
4 But let it be the hidden man of the heart, in
that which is not corruptable, even the ornament of
a meek and quiet spirit, which is in the sight of God
of great price.
Read Isaiah 2:1-4
The church inviting the lost
Isaiah 2:1-4
YA
The word that Isaiah the son of Amoz saw concerning
Judah and Jerusalem.
2 And it shall come to pass in the last days,
that the mountain of the Lord's house shall be
established in the top of the mountains, and shall
be exaulted above the hills; and all nations shall
flow unto it.
3 And many people shall go and say, come ye, and
let us go up to the mountain of the lord, to the
house of the God of Jacob; and he will teach ous
of his ways, and we will walk in his paths: for
out of Zion shall go forth the law, and the word of
the Lord from Jerusalem.
4 And he shall judge among the nations, and shall
rebuke many people: and they shall beat their swords
into plowshares, and their spears into prunning
hooks: nation shall not lift up sword against nation,
neither shall they learn war anymore.
3
Revelation 22:17
17
And the Spirit and the bride say, Come. and let
him that heareth say, Come. And let him that is
athirst come. And whosoever will, let him take the
Tater of life freely.
One soul is worth more than all the world.
Matthew 16:26
26 For what is a man profited, if he shall gain the
whole world, and lose his own soul? or what shall a
han give in exchange for his soul?
