WHAT MUST AN ERRING CHRISTIAN DO FOR FORGIVENESS
After he has obeyed the gospel
Acts 8:22 Repent therefore of this thy wickedness,
and pray God, if perhaps the thought of thine heart
may be forgiven thee.
Peter here gives the second law of pardon the law
of forgiveness to the erring Christian. He is
commanded to "repent", and "pray" for forgiveness.
Simon as a Christian made the mistake of thinking
that he could purchase the communication of the
Holy Spirit to others with his money; hence, Peter
tells him to repent "of this thy wickedness"; this
shows what wickedness he was to repent of; his
former sins had been forgiven, and now he is guilty
of another sin, and it is this one that he is
instructed to repent of and " pray the Lord" that
"the thought of thy heart shall be forgiven thee. "
Again we see that the sin of which he was to repent
was "the thought of thy heart" of thinking that
he could purchase that power with his money.
"If perhaps" means that there is some chance of
his forgiveness; though his sin was great, yet if
he would repent and pray God there is a hope of
his being cleansed of it.
Was this a public sin?
The bible doesnt say.
Was this a private sin?
The bible doesnt say.
The bible makes no distinction in whether a sin
is public or private.
Bethlehem 11-15-87
AM
2
Ephesians 3:12 In whom we have boldness and access
with confidence by the faith of him.
In whom we have boldness. .. .
Christian boldness is revealed as being at least
partially the responsibility of the Christian
himself to maintain it, encourage it in others,
and to manifest it openly in all places and
circumstances. It is the spiritual equivalent of
the confidence displayed by a good athlete who
"talks up a good game" with his teammates.
manifesting at all times a winning attitude.
"Access. .. " This is Pauls word for the privilege
of approaching God in prayer, of coming boldly to
the throne of grace of possessing
the right to
/Father in one's
own person through identity with the Lord Jesus
Christ and needing no go between, mediator, priest
or any other person whomsoever as any kind of
dispencer of spiritual privilege, or even as an
aid in such things. Christians are priests unto
God in Christ Jesus who is the "one mediator";
and no other mediators are needed. Not the name
of any saint, nor the use of any religeous device,
nor the requirement of any human creed can
circumvent or countermand this fundamental right
of the redeemed in Christ, who without any quali-
fication whatever have"access with boldness" unto
God "in Christ Jesus, " through their own faith in
Christ; NO, but by reason of the perfect faith
and obedience of Christ with whom the Christian
is identified as being in Christ, and in the
meaningful sense, actually Christ, as being a part
of his spiritual body.
3
"In whom we have boldness. . .. '
A parellel passage is found in . ...
Hebrews 4:16 Let us therefore come boldly unto
the throne of Grace, that we may obtain mercy !....
and find grace to help in time of need.
"The throne of grace" is the throne of God; and
certain reflections on that subject are appropriate.
(1) The existance of such a thing as God's throne
reveals that the universe is a controlled and
governed entitity and that there is a center of
power and authority, called here "the throne of
grace. " The universe is, therefore, not like a
clock left to run down. God is upon the throne.
(2) The government of all things is personel. Not
a computer, but a throne; not blind senseless
matter, but a person; not merely law, but the will
of One on the throne ----- that is the concept of
universal government explicit in this mention of
the throne.
(3) Such a throne, with its undergirdings of
righteousness and justice, as stated in
Hebrews 1:8-9 But unto the Son he saith, Thy
to onE
throne 0 God, is for ever and for ever: a sceptre
is is the sceptre of thy kingdom.
9 Thou hast loved righteousness, and hated iniquity
therefore God, even thy God, hath anointed thee
with the oil of gladness above thy fellows.
This passage in the Hebrew letter is a quote from
Psalms 45: 6 -7
"God is thy throne, " "Thy throne is God, "
God is not a chair to be sat upon; and no throne
could possibly be God.
4
(4) That thrones being called here a "throne of
grace" makes the control center appear as a source
of mercy for fallen and sinful men, being called
also in Next IJohn 1:9
I John 1:9
Revelations 22:3 And there shall be no more curse:
but the throne of God and the Lamb shall be in tit;
and his servants shall serve him:
How wonderful, from this vale of sorrow and deathh
and sin and shame, to lift the thoughts of the
spirit toward that throne where the Lamb, our
sacrifice, is seated and clothed with the mantle
of total authority!
"Boldly men are commanded to approach the throne
of grace .
Why?
Man's very nature, in the person of Christ, is seated
there. He has tasted every temptation, passed
through every sorrow.
He knows!
Out of his loving heart there
there flows an eternal
tide of love, sympathy and understanding of
humankind, suffering the dreadful trials of their
probation; and he eagerly anticipates the entry of
his beloved children into the joy of their Lord
(Matt 25:23),
