1
WHY WE BELIEVE IN THE CHURCH
WHY WE BELIEVE THE CHURCHES OF CHRIST TODAY
ARE SCRIPTURAL CHURCHES
We believe the church is the pillar and ground of
the truth, now as in New Testament times.
1 Timothy 3:15
15 But if I tarry long, that thou mayest how thou
oughtest to behave thyself in the house of God,
which is the church of the living God, the pillar
and ground of the truth.
He hoped shortly to come to him, to give him further
directions and assistance in his work, and he wrote
the more briefly to him. But he wrote lest he should
tarry long.
Ministers ought to behave themselves well! !
Their office binds them to their good behavior, for
a n y behavior will not do!
The church is the house of God. It is not household.
Believers are God's house.
Obeyers of the gospel are God's house.
Acts 2:47
..... and the Lord added to the church daily such
as should be saved.
The saved then are God's house.
The saved are ad ded to those previously saved.
Saved are added to saved.
Bethlehem Church of Christ 12-4-88 P M
Walling 5-18-80
am
Nichols p 61
2
"Pillar and ground of the truth"
Paul had seen the marvelous colonade of pillars
which was the principal feature of the great
temple of Dianaa at Ephesus; and something of the
meaning of such pillars is inherent in this.
A
pillar and ground upholds and supports.
The church itself is the pillar and ground of
truth. The church holds forth the scripture and
doctrine of Christ, as the pillar to which a
proclamation is affixed holds forth the proclamation
Timothy was an evangelist. He and other faithful
ministers are the pillar and ground of truth; it
is their business to maintain the truths of Christ.
Let us be diligent in our enquiries after truth;
let us buy the truth at any rate, and use all our
energies to discover it.
Let us be careful to keep and preserve it. Let us
take to publish it.
But what is the truth which the churches and
ministers are the pillars and ground of ??
Christianity is a mystery that could not have been
found out by reason or the light of nature, because
it is above reason, though not contrary thereto.
It is a mystery of godliness, and herein it exceeds
all the mysteries of the Gentiles.
It is Christ.
Christ is God manifest in the flesh, in the person
of Christ.
He is justified in the Spirit. He was reproached
as a sinner, and put to death as a malefactor,
being raised again, he was justified in the Spirit.
HE WAS SEEN OF ANGELS
Angels ministered to him, for he is the Lord of a
angels.
3
Angels were extremely solicitous for our Lord's
welfare, ever ready to do his will, and importantly
identified with his earthly ministry.
ANGELS
Announced his birth
Warned Joseph to fll into Egypt
Ministered to him in the wilderness
Strengthened him in Gethsemane
Rolled away the stone
Announced his resurrection
Escorted him to glory
Prophesied his return
Twelve legions of angels stood ready to rescue him
during the passion
Ten thousand of his holy angels will accompany him
in the second coming.
A great part of the mystery of godliness is that
Christ was preached to the Gentiles as a Redeemer
and Savior.
Many believed he was the Son of God and accepted
as their Savior
1 Timothy 3:16
see back page
"Believed on in the world. ... "
This is a continuing mystery. Contrary to every
evil, in spite of what appears to be every good
reason against it, the word of God still falls in
good and honest hearts; and God continues his
precious harvest of souls from the earth. God's
faithful continue to love him rather than darkness.
Many continue to live by every word that proceedeth
out of the mouth of God.
4
He ascended up to heaven
Acts 1: 9-11
9 And when he had spoken these things, while they
beheld, he was taken up; and a cloud received him
out of their sight.
10 And while they looked steadfastly toward heaven
as he went up, behold, two men stood by them in
white apparel;
11 Which also said, ye men of Galilee, why stand
ye gazing up into heaven? this same Jesus, which
is taken up from you into heaven, shall so come in
like manner as ye have seen him go into heaven.
1 Tim othy 3:16
And without controversy great is the mystry of
godliness: God was manifest in the flesh, justified
in the Spirit, seen of angels, preached unto the
Gentiles, believed on in the world, received up
into glory.
