1
WHY WE BELIEVE THE BIBLE
INTRODUCTION
The Bible can be traced back and back, to the
first century.
From whence came this wonderful book?
The Bible itself claims to have been written by
inspiration.
The tree is good. The rFruit is good.
Matthew 7:15-20
15 Beware of false prophets, which come to you in
sheeps clothing, but inwardly they are raveningly
wolves
16 Ye shall know them by their fruits. Do men
gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles.
17 Even so every good tree bringeth forth good
fruit;
but a corrupt tree bringeth forth evil
fruit.
18 A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit,
neither can a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit.
19 Every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit
is hewn down, and cast into the fire.
20 Wherefore by their fruits ye shall know them.
This warning comes out of what Jesus had just said.
The broad way will have its advocates, false teachers
who will attempt to widen the narrow way and breach
the strait gate.
This passage suggests the great apostacy which is
elaborated in the following New Testament passages:
Acts 20:29-31
29 For I know this, that after my departing shalll
grieveous wolves enter in among you, not sparing
the flock.
30 Also of your own selves shall men arise,
spaeking perverse things, to draw away disciples
after them.
Bethlehem 11-20-88 P M
31
Therefore watch, and remember, that by the space
of three years I ceased not to warn every one night
and day with tears. Walling 12-23-79 Nichols P 58
2
IT Corinthians 11:1-3
Would to God ye could bear with me a little in my
folly: and indeed bear with me.
2 For I am jealous over you with godly jealously:
for I have espoused you to one husband, that I may
present you as a chaste virgin to Christ.
3 But I fear, lest by any means, as the serpent
beguiled Eve through his subtilty, so your minds
should be corrupted from the simplicity that is in
Christ.
I Timothy 4:1-5
Now the Spirit speaketh expressly, that in the
latter times some shall depart from the faith,
giving heed to seducing spirits, and doctrines of
devils;
2 Speaking lies in hypocracy; having their conscience
seared with a hot iron;
3 Forbidding to marry, and commanding to abstain
from meats, which God hath created to be received
with thanksgiving of them which believe and know
the truth.
4. For every creature of God is good, and nothing
to be refused, if it be received with thanksgiving:
5. For it is sanctified by the word of God and
prayer.
II Timothy 3:1-8
1
This know also, that in the last days perilous
times shall come.
2 For men shall be lovers of their own selves,
covetous, boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient
to parents, unthankful, unholy,
3 Without natural affection, trucebreakers, false
accusers, incontinent, fierce, despisers of these
that are good,
4 Traitors, heady, high-minded, lovers of pleasure
more than lovers of God;
5 Having a form of godliness, but denying the
power thereof: from such turn away.
6 For of this sort are they which creep into houses.
and lead captive silly women laden with sins, led
away with divers lusts,
3
7. Ever learning, and never able to come to the
knowledge of the truth.
8 Now as Jan'nes and Jam'bres withstood Moses, so
do these also resist the truth: men of corrupt minds,
reprobate concerning the faith.
