1
WHY THEY GO BACK
1 Corinthians 15:33
33 Be not deceived: evil communications corrupt
good manners.
Some view this statement as proverb. The truth
spoken is timeless and applicable to all who ever
lived in any generation. Do not permit others to
impose desception on you.
He who frequents the company of the bad or corrupt
will soon be as they are.
There is an old saying,
"There were two dry logs of wood,
and one green log;
But the dry logs burnt up the green log
He may be sound in the faith, and have the life and
power of godliness, and at first frequent their
01
company only for the sake of their pleasing conversat
conversation, or their literatery accomplishments:
and he may think his faith proof against his i
infidelity; but he will soon find, by means of their
glozing speeches, his faith weakened; and when once
he gets under the empire of doubt, unbelief will soon
prevail; his bad company will corrupt his morals, and
the two dry logs will soon burn up the green one.
Know this:
Thou must not keep company with the
wicked, but converse always good men. With such
eat, drink and associate. Please those who have
the greatest virtue. From good men thou mayest
learn good things; but if thou keep company with
the wicked, thou wilt loose even the intelligence
which thou now possessest.
Is it popular to be a christian?
Popular pull of the world causes many to go back.
Popular pull of the world hinders many from obeying
the gospel.
Bethlehem 10-9-88 P M
Walling 2-11-79
2
John 12: 42-43
42 Neverless among the chief rulers also many
believed on him; but because of the Pharisees they
did not confess him, lest they be put out of the
synagogue :
should
43 For they loved the praise of men more than the
praise of God .
These two verses are among the most important in
scripture in regard to their bearing upon the question
of whether one is justified by faith only, making it
impossible logically to believe that faith alone can
justify.
But there is only one faith!
Believed on him
is alledged to have been faith of
a different kind from that required for salvation.
The saving faith is the kind of faith that causes
one to obey the gospel.
The faith of these rulers was not sufficient to cause
them to confess.
We must realize that something more than faith is
required for salvation. The device of supposing that
one kind of faith from the heart and another kind
from the mind, or intellect, is ridiculous, because
the scriptural heart is the mind. The bible says
nothing about kinds of faith, distinctions of varte ti
varieties of faith deriving from human speculation
and not from God's word. There was something wrong
with the faith of the rulers. It was faith alone.
This stands squarely opposed to the theory of
justification by faith alone. This may be the reason
why so many writers have labored to make the faith
in this verse to have been some diverse kind or
variety of faith.
Many people today are in the same category with these
rulers. They believe but will not confess and be
baptized.
Lest they should be put out of the synagogue. ....
The social pressures in the community were sufficient
to restrain some from acting in harmony with their
faith in Christ. The same is true today,
One may have faith -repent-confess- and be lost
3
They loved the glory. .....
Regardless of the faith that may exist in the heart,
it is the love of God which must sustain ans activate
it if it is to issue in any benefit to the believer.
Love is greater than faith, even a complete faith;
and the reason for this was announced by our Lord
himself who said, "If ye love me ye will keep my
commandments, " a statement nowhere made concerning
faith. John 14:15
How strange it is that men claim exactly the same
thing for faith that Christ claimed for love, making
faith the fulfilling of all the commandments. Any
theory of justification by faith which omits love
and obedience is a false theory.
John 19:38-39
38 And after this Joseph of Arimathea, being a
disciple of Jesus, but secretely for fear of the
Jewa, besought Pilate that he might take away the
body of Jesus: and Pilate gave him leave. He came
therefore, and took the body of Jesus.
39 And there came also Nicodemus, which at the first
came to Jesus by night, and brought a mixture of
myrrh and aloes, abought a hunderd pound weight.
Full account of Nicodemus John 3:1-7
Full account of Joseph Matthew 27: 57-60
The blind man Jesus cast out of the synagogue
John 9:34
