1
WHY THEY GO BACK
If we know the reasons why members quit the Church;
then we can guard against these reasons
and give
us strength to overcome.
In this lesson we are to consider wealth and riches
as prime reasons why they go back.
Do we have wealth and riches in this congregation?
It doesnt take much of this worlds goods to shut up
our compassion for the poor.
Wealth and riches often hinder rather rather than
administer to Godliness.
1Timothy 6:5-17
5 Perverse disputings of men of corrupt minds,
and destitute of the truth, supposing that gain is
Godliness: from such withdraw thyself.
6 But Godliness with contentment is great gain.
7 For we brought nothing into this world, and it
is certain we can we can carry nothing out.
And having food and raiment, let us be therewith
content
9 But they that will be rich fall into temptation
and a snare, and into many foolish and hurtful lusts,
which drown men in destruction and perdition.
10 For the love of money is the root of all evil:
which while some coveted after, they have erred from
the faith, and pierced themselves through with many
sorrows ,
11 But thou, 0 man of God, flee these things; and
follow after righteousness, Godliness, faith, love,
patience, meekness.
12 Fight the good fight of faith, lay hold on eternal
life, whereunto thou art also called, and hast
professed a good profession before many witnesses.
13 I give thee charge in the sight of God, who
quickeneth all things, and before Christ Jesus, who
before Pontius Pilate witnessed a good confession;
14 that thou keep this commandment without spot,
unrebukable, until the appearing of our Lord Jesus
Christ:
15 Which in his times he shall show, who is the
blessed and only Potentate, the King of Kings, and
Lord of Lords;
Walling 2-18-79 am
Bethlehem 9-25-88 AM
2
16 Who only hath immortality, dwelling in the ligght
which no man can approach unto; whom no man hath seen,
nor can see: to whom be honor and power everlasting,
Amen.
17 Charge them that are rich in this world, that
they be not high-minded nor trust in uncertain riches,
but in the living God, who giveth us richly all
things to enjoy;
v5 Perverse disputings of men of corrupt minds
Disputes that cannot be settled because the parties
will not listen to the truth are to a fair compro-
mise because their minds are corrupt.
Such corrupt disputers are as destitute of the
truth as they are of love to God and man.
Where the love of God and man does not prevail,
there is no religion.
Supposing that gain is godliness
That is, professing religion only for the sake of
secular profit.
From such withdraw thyself.
Have no religious fellowship with such people.
The withdrawal of fellowship from ungodly people
is one of the misunderstood passages of the Bible
by the Church of Christ members in many areas.
How do you withdraw yourself?
II Thessalonians 3:6
Now we command you, brethren, in the name of our
Lord Jesus Christ, that ye withdraw yourselves
from every brother that walketh disorderly, and
not after the tradition which he received of us.
Luke 22:41
41 And he was withdrawn from them about a stone's
cast, and kneeled down, and prayed,
Luke 5:16
16 And he withdrew himself into the wilderness, and
prayed.
witharay yourselvon fram every
Toschi that walketh disorderty
3
v6 Godliness signifies true Christianity and the
word contentment signifies a sufficiency; that
measure or portion of things which is necessary
for the support of life, while the great work of
regeneration is carrying on in the soul.
If a man have the life of God in his soul, and just
a sufficiency in raiment to preserve and not
burden life, he has what God calls great gain.
It requires but little of this world's goods to
satisfy a man who feels himself to be a citizen of
another country, and knows that this is not his
rest.
v7 We brought nothing into this world
Everyone that comes into the world is commanded to
be content with food and raiment. This is a saying
that means almost the same as Paul said.
In leaving this world all encumbrances are shaken
off.
v8 Having food and raiment let us be therewith
content.
This means house or lodging as well as
food and clothing.
to here2-25-79 pm-
v9 But they that will be rich
The words here are emphatic and refer to persons
who are so determined to get riches; who make
this their object and aim in life; who live to
get money; who get all they can, save all they
can, and keep all they get; and yet are appre-
hensive of no danger, because they seek to be
rich by honest means; for it is likely that the
apostle does not refer to those who wish to get
riches by wicked means.
He that has more than food and raiment is rich in
the sense in which the apostle uses the term.
Many fine Christians are rich. They do not keep
all they get. We hear of congragations that have
many wealthy members reaching goals of a million
dollars.
4
We can be guilty of the sins that apply to the
rich with very little of this world's goods.
What
do we intend to do with our money?
To here at Bethlehem 9-25-88 Am
v10 For the love of money is the root of all evil;
Have we heard the scripture quoted as saying "Money
is the root of all evil! "
The scripture says no such thing. Money is the
root of no evil. Money is not an evil of any kind.
Money is a measure of value and is generally
accepted as a medium of exchange. The love of money
is the root of all kinds of evil.
While some coveted after
Unholy desire
have erred from the faith
have departed from the religion of Christ
and pierced themselves through with many sorrows
This is an illusion where a hole is dug in the
earth and filled full of sharp stakes, being
slightly covered over; and whatever steps on it
falls in and is pierced through and through.
This
physical description causes one to shudder. This
is the spiritual result.
vll But thou o man of God
Thou who has taken God for thy portion and art
seeking a city that hath foundations, whose builder
is the living God.
Flee these things.
Escape for thy life. Even thou art not out of the
reach of the love of money. How much has religion
suffered by the love of money.
Follow after rightousness
Justice and uprightness in all thy dealings with
men
Godliness
A thorough conformity to the image of God and
mind of Christ.
Faith
In Jesus and in all that he has spoken
Fidelity
To the talents thou hast received, and the office
with which thou art entrusted
5
love
to God and all mankind.
patience
in all trials and afflictions
meekness
bearing up with an even mind under all adversities
and contradictions
v12 Fight the good fight of faith
Thou hast a contest to sustain in which thy honor,
thy life, thy soul, are at stake. Live the gospel,
and defend the cause of God. Build up the church,
live in the spirit of thy religion, and give thyself
wholly to this work.
Lay hold on eternal life
All this is in illusion to the exercises in the
public Grecian games: fight, conquer, and seize
upon the prize; carry off the crown of eternal life!
Whereunto thou art also called
The illusion is still to the games.
Thou hast been
called; thou hast been accepted as one proper to
enter the list.
v13 I give thee charge in the sight of God, who
quickeneth all things.
God, who is the fountain of life, and who is the
resurrection, ; and who will raise thee up at the
last day to a life of ineffable glory, if thou be
faithful unto death.
A good confession
The good confession occurs many times; God, when
Jesus was baptized, Jesus on a number of occasions,
Peter, when asked by Christ who he said Jesus was
and by all of you who are members of the body of
Christ.
To here 3-4-79
am
v14
That thou keep this commandment without spot
The whole doctrine of Christ should be kept.
Keep it without spot let there be no blot on the
sacred book ;
Add nothing to it;
Take nothing from it;
Change nothing in it.
Bethlehem 9-25-88 A M
6
Deliver down to thy successors the truth as thou
had it from God himself.
Unrebukable
Let there be nothing in thy conduct contrary to this
truth. Keep the truth and the truth will keep you.
Until the appearing of our Lord
Hand it down pure, and let thy conduct be a comment
on it, that it may continue in the world and in the
Church till the coming of Christ.
v1 5
Which in his times he shall show
Jesus will appear in the most proper time; the time
which the infinite God in his wisdom has appointed
for the second coming of his son.
The blessed and only Potentate
Mighty one
A person who possesses great power and authority.
Blessed and only Potentate
God.
The King over all Kings.
The Lord over all Lords.
These titles could not be given to any mortal.
v16 Who only hath immortality
The source from which immortality comes to man.
We may say by immortality is meant the survival
the survival of the soul or the spiritual part of
man after death.
Death then is the seperation of the soul from the
body.
WW8h-hBgman the light which no man can approach unto
Moses could only see the symbol of the divine
presence; but the face of God no man could ever see,
Whom no man hath seen, nor can see, to whom be
honor and power everlasting. Amen.
7
v17 Charge them that are rich in this world
This is a strong lesson concerning the use of riches
That they be not high-minded
Riches add nothing to moral worth. We must not
value ourselves according to our wealth.
Nor trust in uncertain riches
They cannot give happiness because they are not fixed
or permanent.
Who giveth us richly all things to enjoy
He does not give merely what is necessary or a bare
subsistance, but he gives us the necessary things,
the comfortable things, and the enjoyable things.
8
The oriental form of speech that denied the lesser
in order to emphasize the greater is often employed
in the New Testament.
Example
Labor not for the meat which perisheth, but for that
meat which endureth unto everlasting life.
