1
WHY THEY GO BACK
Little Faith in Christ
It was an hard saying for Jesus to tell them he was
going to die. They thought that He was to continue
to live with them and be an earthly king.
John 6:15
When Jesus therefore perceived that they would come
and take him by force, to make him a king, he departed
again into a mountain himself alone.
No rationalistic explanation of this sign could
account for such a reaction on the part of the
multitude. They were fully convinced that Jesus
was the Messiah, and they proposed to make him
king and move against the Romans! With the Messiah
feeding them, as God had done so long ago, the
problem of the quartermaster was solved! It was
time to throw off the yoke of Rome; and they would
have violated the wishes of Christ himself to further
their own schemes. Israel never learned in the long
ages of Judiasm nor in the times of Christ, that
an earthly kingdom was never in God's plans from
the very beginning, nor then, nor ever.
Read I Samuel 8:6-22
Throughout the ages, the earthly king of the Hebrews
was their project, not God's; and although God
permitted them to have a king, it was never his will.
It was that same obsession for that earthly king
that blinded their eyes to the Messiah when he came.
The great sign just done before the people, instead
of setting their hearts upon the Messiah's teachings,
only set on fire their earthly ambitions for the
restorationsof Solomon's throne, a projest that was
never for one moment contained in the purpose of
Christ.
Christ had been fully aware all that day of what
was going on; and there is more of a possibility
that the apostles themselves had been affected with
the viris that had seized the crowd.
Walling 1-21-79
am
Bethlehem 9-17-89 P M
2
The Lord counteracted it by compelling the disciples
to get into the boat, despite threatening weather,
and go back to the other side of the lake. Jesus
rejected the efforts to make him king, by sending
the apostles away and then withdrawing up into the
mountain, leaving the vain frenzy of the mob to
frustrate itself in the gathering darkness.
From the parable of the sower!
A sower went out to sow his seed.
And some fell upon a rock.
Luke 8:13
They on the rock are they, which, when they hear,
receive the word with joy;
and these have no root,
which for awhile believe, and in time of temptation
fall away.
