1
WHY THEY GO BACK
Hard Sayings of Jesus
Mark 16:16
16 He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved;
but he that believeth not shall be dammed.
There is a way God makes men righteous. He transfers
the sinner into Christ. There is no way men can
remove this doctrine from the teaching of Christ.
On the day of Pentecost
Peter said to the multitude
Acts 2:38
38 Then Peter said unto them, Repent, and be baptized
every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for
the remission of sins, and ye shall receive the gift
of the Holy Ghost.
The way of salvation is described as --- The way ---
--- pA way --- The road -- A gate --
as in
Matthew 7:13-14
13 Enter ye in at the strait gate: for wide is the
gate, and broad is the way, that leadeth to destructio
and many there be which go in thereat:
14 Because strait is the gate, and narrow is the
way, which leadeth unto life, and few there be that
find it.
These verses explain the relationship of the saved
to the lost. They shall be as the few to the many.
We should not be discouraged to know of this relation-
ship. Wheat does not grow grain all the way to the
ground, only in the ear. Salvation is available
and obtainable to all generations. Only a few will
put forth the effort to learn of Christ and obey him.
Walling 1-28-79
am
2
The term "narrow" is meaningful. Truth can be no
other way but narrow. Why should it seem strange
that entering eternal life should be any other way
than by the "narrow gate"? The narrowness consists
of the restrictions, disciplines, and requirements
throughout the whole area of Christian living.
Such things as self-denial, forgiveness of others,
meekness, renunciation of the pursuit of wealth as
the chief end of life, and countless other basic
principles are opposed to the natural man whose
baser instincts propel him constantly in the direction
of the wide gate and the broad way. Only those who
are truly spiritual, who have set their minds on
heavenly things shall enter that narrow gate and walk
the straightened way.
And yet, "Whosoever will may come! "
Forgiveness of sins and the gift of Gods Spirit æ
promised
are/after both repentence and baptism and faith
obedience of the believer
