1
WHY THEY GO BACK
John 6:66-69
Why did these people go back and walk no more with
him?
Jesus had told them that he would give his life for
the world;
Jesus had told them they would have to eat his flesh
and drink his blood.
John 6:66-69
From that time many of his disciples went back, and
walked no more with him.
67 Then Jesus said unto the twelve, will ye also go
away ?
68 Then Simon Peter answered him, Lord, to whom
shall we gol? Thou hast the words of eternal life.
69 And we believe and are sure that thou art that
Christ, the son of the living God.
Hard Sayings of Jesus
Many of Jesus' plainest teaching must be accounted
"Hard sayings. "
His teaching concerning judgment,
hell, and eternal condemnation are so hard, in fact,
that some reject them. His doctrine concerning the
new birth, going the second mile, turning the other
cheek, and the forbidding of divorce are hard sayings;
and men are still offended by them, even as some
disciples were offended then.
For the child of faith, the sayings of Christ are
received in meekness, whether fully understood or
not; because true confidence in the Lord will not
permit the setting aside of anything that he taught.
v66 The more carnal majority of the thong that
heard Jesus found the events and discussions of
that day an insurmountable obstacle to their
following him any longer.
It appears that the reference made to eating his
flesh and drinking his blood at this time was made
because they were thinking of Jesus' feeding them
physical food.
Walling 1-14-79
Bethlehem 4-16-89 P M
2
v67 These words were spoken sorrowfully and with
deepest concernlest the Twelve themselves should
be swept away by the great defection; neverless,
the Lord would not force even them. Every man was
free to leave if he choose to do so. Godos plans
always go forward, with or without men's cooperation.
Even the Twelve were not indespencible; and, if they
had defected, others would have been chosen, and the
Master's work would have succeeded just the same.
However the Lord loved those men and earnestly desired
their continuence with him.
v68 Here, in Peter's answer, was the secret of why
many defected that day, and a few did not. It was
not that God in some imperial, inscrutable election,
before all time and eternity, had decreed that some
should go and others stay. Far from it! Peter had
regard to the word of God which Jesus was teaching;
and that word was the anchor that held Peter, despite
the fact that the metaphor must have shocked him as
much as it did the multitude. Those who defected
were not taught of God, duento their own character,
and not for any lack of opportunity; therefore they
were not drawn of God, being drawn instead by their
own carnal preferences.
To Whom Shall We Go
I Peters question carries the implication that all
men require someone to whom they can go. . It is not
in man that walketh to direct his steps; he is
never free to order his own affairs but is always
a slave to the philosophy he accepts. Mans
constitutional nature is such that he is free only
choose a master, a choice that narrows down to God
or Mammon. This explains man's irrevocable
commitment to religeon. He may have the true
religeon, or any one of a thousand false religeons;
but religeon he must have.
Indians worshipped
There are Satan worshippers today.
3
II
Peters reply carried with it the human loyalties
are directed to a person rather than a philosophy .
III Peters reply made mention of life after death
or an eternal existance.
The Egyptians expected to need material things
after this life.
IV
Thou hast the words of eternal life.
To
turn from Jesus is to turn to darkness and despair.
Mankind is like one lost in a lifeboat in the sea
at midnight; and across the ocean only one beacon
penetrated the darkness, to turn from that light
is to choose darkness and death.
JESUS IS THE WORLDS ONLY LIGHT.
v69 Believed
We walk by faith not by sight.
Here is glimpsed one of the great realities regarding
knowing and believing. knowledge is properly held tto
be valuable, but it is not in knowing, but in believi
ng, that one discovers spiritual reality. If one
shall wait until he"knows" in the absolute sense
of that term, he shall never believe; but if with
all his heart he shall "believe" in the fullest
sense of the word, then he shallknow with certainity
and absolute assurance the great truths unfolded
in the word of the Lord. "We walk by faith and not
by sight, " an apostle said; and as the soul of
man would ascend into that eternal realm of the
spirit and take hold of the inheritance of the saints
4
in light, he will find faith a far better
conveyancethan mere knowledge. May all who hear the
these words believe that Jesus is the holy one of d
God, Thus it was with Peter and all who ever believ
Those who make the moral choice to believe find
also that it is supported by all of the gifts of
reason and of intelligence as well; and the believe1
shall find, as did the apostles, that believing,
he shall know the truth.
Tonbolwom
